QUESTION PRESENTED This brief addresses the question whether the public meaning of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act covers for-profit corporations and their owners. Amici are religious and civil liberties organizations who are concerned that the Religious Freedom Restoration Act be accurately interpreted and fully enforced. Several of these amici actively participated in the effort to pass RFRA and related legislation and in the debates reviewed in this brief. Individual amici are described in the Appendix. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT The Religious Freedom Restoration Act provides universal coverage. It applies to "all" federal law and to "all" cases where the free exercise of religion is substantially burdened. The legislative history confirms the universality of the statutory text. The sponsors resisted all efforts to add exceptions to coverage. A definition in an early version of the bill, limiting coverage to "natural persons" and religious organizations, was eliminated in all later drafts. After this Court invalidated RFRA as applied to the states, Congress sought to re-enact RFRA's standard, in substantively identical language, for application to cases that could be reached under the Commerce and Spending Clauses. The debates on this bill, the Religious Liberty Protection Act (RLPA), reveal the public meaning of the nearly identical language in RFRA. The RLPA debate is highly probative because it was a serious fight on a live issue. It was not in any sense an attempt to make post-enactment legislative history about RFRA, but it clearly demonstrates the public meaning of RFRA's language. RLPA was delayed for more than a year by demands for a civil-rights exception. This debate culminated in the Nadler Amendment, which would have prevented all but the very smallest businesses from invoking RLPA in response to civil-rights claims. In the debate on the Nadler Amendment, both sides agreed that the language copied from RFRA protected corporations. One side thought that desirable; the other side thought it desirable in some cases but objectionable in civil-rights cases. But there was no disagreement on what the language of RFRA and RLPA meant. The debate, conducted by the leaders on both sides, was extensive and unambiguous. RLPA was never enacted, but neither was RFRA's coverage reduced. In the wake of this debate, Congress amended the relevant language of RFRA to further strengthen its protections. The claims in these cases are clearly covered by the public meaning revealed in RFRA's text and history and more specifically in the RLPA debates. Apart from civil-rights claims, both sides recognized the need to cover incorporated religious businesses (Mardel) and corporations with religious owners where regulation of the corporation would substantially burden the owners' exercise of religion (Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood). The RLPA debate also confirms that RFRA applies to suits by private plaintiffs. The whole debate was about religious defenses to claims by individuals alleging discrimination. Protecting for-profit corporations is consistent with larger traditions of religious liberty. State and federal conscience legislation has often protected for-profit businesses. The most relevant example here is the widely enacted conscience legislation with respect to abortion. The plaintiffs in these cases object only to drugs and devices believed to sometimes cause abortions. And the protection for conscientious refusals to kill is especially well settled in our tradition. Our moral tradition holds corporate owners and leaders morally responsible for the wrongdoing of their corporations. The government often imposes criminal responsibility on individuals for corporate wrongdoing. That it has not done so in the Affordable Care Act does not change the basic point; it is entirely normative for the individual plaintiffs to feel morally responsible for the acts of the corporations they control. Finally, excluding religious minorities from significant businesses or occupations is a time-honored means of religious persecution, well known to the Founders. If the individual plaintiffs refuse to violate their conscience, the government would exclude them from any business that grows to fifty employees and to incorporated status. Such exclusions must be covered by the Free Exercise Clause, and when accomplished by allegedly neutral and generally applicable laws, covered by RFRA. ARGUMENT I. Congress Explicitly Understood RFRA to Protect For-Profit Corporations and Their Owners. The government argues that incorporated for-profit businesses, and the owners of such businesses with respect to any claim arising in the course of operating the business, are categorically excluded from the protections of the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Pet. Br. 15-31, No. 13-354. This view is demonstrably mistaken. It is inconsistent with the statutory text. It is inconsistent with the drafting history. And it is inconsistent with a substantial and hard-fought debate over legislation in pari materia with RFRA and worded identically with RFRA in every relevant respect. A. The Text and History of RFRA Show That All Claims Are Covered, Including Claims by For-Profit Corporations. 1. The Statutory Text Provides Universal Coverage. Congress repeatedly emphasized that RFRA would provide universal coverage, applying a single standard to all cases. Excluding corporate cases at the threshold, instead of evaluating them under RFRA's substantive standard of exercise of religion, substantial burden, compelling interest, and least-restrictive means, is inconsistent with this commitment to uniform coverage of all claims. RFRA explicitly "applies to all Federal law, and the implementation of that law, whether statutory or otherwise, and whether adopted before or after November 16, 1993." 42 U.S.C. 2000bb-3(a) (emphasis added). This section originally said that RFRA "applies to all Federal and State law." Pub. L. 103-141, 6(a), 107 Stat. 1488, 1489 (1993). The words "and State" were deleted by the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, Pub. L. 106- 274, 7(b), 114 Stat. 803, 806 (2000). RFRA's stated purpose is "to restore the compelling interest test and to guarantee its application in all cases where free exercise of religion is substantially burdened." 2000bb(b)(1) (emphasis added). RFRA protects "a person's exercise of religion" - not a natural person's, or a not-for-profit person's. 2000bb-1(a) (emphasis added). And of course "person" in federal legislation includes natural persons and every form of artificial person, including for-profit corporations, unless the context indicates otherwise. 1 U.S.C. 1. The universality of persons covered and the universality of government actions covered are of a piece: Congress enacted a single standard and applied it universally. 2. The Legislative History Confirms the Statutory Text. This universal coverage was further emphasized in the committee reports. The House Report said that RFRA would apply to "all governmental actions which have a substantial external impact on the practice of religion," that "the definition of governmental activity covered by the bill is meant to be all inclusive," and that RFRA's "test applies whenever a law burdens a person's exercise of religion." H.R. Rep. 103-88, at 6 (1993) (emphasis added). The test applies to "all cases." Id. at 7 (emphasis added). The Senate Report said that the bill was needed to "assure that all Americans are free to follow their faiths free from governmental interference." S. Rep. 103- 111, at 8 (emphasis added). This emphasis on universal coverage was not just political rhetoric. The bill was supported by Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives, secular groups and religious groups. Universal coverage by a single standard was a key to holding this broad coalition together: no one could have an exception for his favorite cause, because that would lead other groups to ask for other exceptions. Many groups requested many different exceptions; the sponsors repeatedly said no. Had exceptions proliferated, the bill would have become a list of approved and disapproved religious-liberty claims. As the original lead sponsor in the House testified: If Congress succumbs to the temptation to pick and choose among the religious practices of the American people, protecting those practices the majority finds acceptable or appropriate, and slamming the door on those religious practices that may be frightening or unpopular, then we will have succeed sic in codifying rather than reversing Smith. Congress of course recognized that judges would and should consider the facts and context of individual cases, but the Act "would establish one standard for testing claims of Government infringement on religious practices." S. Rep. at 9. That "one standard" would apply to prisoner cases, id.; a floor amendment to exclude prisoner claims was rejected in the Senate, 58-41. "The unitary standard set forth in the act" would apply to military cases. Id. at 12. A competing bill, which was not enacted, would have excluded all abortion claims. H.R. 4040, 102d Cong. It was principally the fight over an abortion exception that held the bill up for three years. See, e.g., the two-day hearing cited in note 4, which was dominated by the abortion issue. The sponsors held firm to their commitment to no exceptions. Had anyone demanded an exception for claims by for-profit corporations or their owners, the response would have been the same. We know this with unusual clarity, for two reasons, each explained below. First, an early draft did exclude corporate claims; that provision was deleted. Second, in the next round of legislation on the subject, powerful forces sought to exclude some corporations with respect to some kinds of claims. The sponsors again said no. RFRA enacted a single standard for all cases, and there were no exceptions. 3. Congress Eliminated a Definition That Would Have Codified the Government's Interpretation. RFRA was first introduced in the 101st Congress as H.R. 5377 and S. 3254. Each bill contained a definition of "person," "as used in this Act." These definitions were omitted when the bills were introduced in the 102d Congress as H.R. 2797 and S. 2969, and again when the bills were introduced in the 103d Congress as H.R. 1308 and S. 578. When the drafters delete a definition of a term that is also defined in the Dictionary Act, the natural inference is that they chose to rely on the Dictionary Act instead of creating a more specific definition for a particular statute. But there is more. Section 4(4) of H.R. 5377 would have explicitly stated the government's view of this case: "the term 'person' includes both natural persons and religious organizations, associations, or corporations." That provision, with its reference to natural persons, was omitted from later drafts and from the bill as enacted. The definition in S. 3254 was slightly different: "The term 'person' includes natural persons, religious organizations, associations, and corporations." Because there is no "and" after "persons," to make a separate series of what follows, "religious" modifies only "organizations." All corporations are literally included. But this was probably an attempt to duplicate the definition in the House bill. Either way, this definition and its reference to "natural persons" were dropped from later bills. The limited definition in H.R. 5377 was inconsistent with the commitment to universal coverage in later versions of the bill. It may also be that the lead sponsor, who represented "the largest Orthodox Jewish community in the entire country," realized that Orthodox businesses needed the bill's protections. House Hearing, supra note 4, at 119 (Mr Solarz). The statutory text, the legislative history, the refusal to create any exceptions, and the elimination of this narrow definition of "person" all point in the same direction. RFRA protects all persons, including for-profit corporations and their owners. The statutory text repeatedly says "all," because that is what Congress meant. B. The RLPA Debates Confirmed the Understanding That RFRA Applies to For-Profit Corporations and Their Owners. 1. The RLPA Debates Are Relevant to Show the Public Meaning of RFRA. As enacted in 1993, RFRA applied to "all Federal and State law, and the implementation of that law." See supra note 2. In City of Boerne v. Flores, 521 U.S. 507 (1997), this Court held RFRA unconstitutional as applied to the states. Congress attempted to respond with the proposed Religious Liberty Protection Act (RLPA). This bill was H.R. 4019 and S. 2148 in the 105th Congress and H.R. 1691 and S. 2081 in the 106th Congress. These bills sometimes mysteriously fail to appear in searches on Thomas, but they are available from other official sources. H.R. 1691, which generated the debate and vote discussed in this brief, is available at http://beta.congress.gov/106/bills/hr1691/BILLS106hr1691ih.pdf and at http://www.gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/BILLS106hr1691eh/pdf/BILLS-106hr1691eh.pdf. RFRA's substantive standard - the language that either does or does not include for-profit corporations - is found in Section 2 of the original RFRA bills, now 42 U.S.C. 2000bb-1. RFRA provided, and still provides: (a) In general Government shall not substantially burden a person's exercise of religion even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability, except as provided in subsection (b) of this section. (b) Exception Government may substantially burden a person's exercise of religion only if it demonstrates that application of the burden to the person - (1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest. 42 U.S.C. 2000bb-1. Section 2 of RLPA tracked this language verbatim, except for stylistic tweaks that could not possibly affect meaning, and would have applied this language to the states in all cases that Congress could reach under the Commerce Clause or the Spending Clause. RLPA would have provided: (a) GENERAL RULE. - Except as provided in subsection (b), a government shall not substantially burden a person's religious exercise in Commerce or Spending Clause cases even if the burden results from a rule of general applicability. (b) EXCEPTION. - A government may substantially burden a person's religious exercise if the government demonstrates that application of the burden to the person - (1) is in furtherance of a compelling governmental interest; and (2) is the least restrictive means of furthering that compelling governmental interest. H.R. 1691 2 (106th Cong.). The committee report said, with the slightest of imprecision, that "Section 2(b) is taken verbatim from RFRA." H.R. Rep. 106- 219, at 28 (1999). When Congress discussed the meaning of Section 2 of RLPA, it was necessarily also discussing the meaning of Section 2 of RFRA. Everyone agreed on what this section of RLPA meant - and therefore on what RFRA meant. RLPA was not enacted in its original form, but parts of it were enacted in the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act, including amendments to strengthen RFRA. We will return to these amendments after reviewing the debate. This debate is not "post-enactment legislative history" of RFRA. Nobody on either side offered to explain RFRA for the record. Rather, this was a hard-fought debate about whether to amend a pending bill that was not just in pari materia with RFRA, but on the issues presented here, substantively identical to RFRA. Everyone agreed on the meaning of the unamended language and on the meaning of a proposed amendment. The leaders on both sides of this debate were consulting the interest groups who cared about the bill. This is not a case where the interest groups on one side got to draft the committee report; the two sides agreed on what the bill meant. This debate shows the public meaning of RFRA's text as of 1999. This debate is not at all like the post-enactment history rejected in Bruesewitz v. Wyeth LLC, 131 S. Ct. 1068, 1081-82 (2011). That "history" was an explicit and self-conscious attempt to explain the meaning of a prior law; this was not. In the RLPA debates, Congress discussed the public meaning of an existing statute for the purpose of further legislation. Moreover, application of the history offered in Bruesewitz to the issue in the case depended on attenuated inferences; here, the leaders for the two sides squarely addressed the central issue now presented in this case. The RLPA debates are like the evidence of what the Second Amendment was understood to mean, which the Court considered in District of Columbia v. Heller, 554 U.S. 570 (2008): " 'Post-enactment legislative history' most certainly does not refer to the examination of a variety of legal and other sources to determine the public understanding of a legal text in the period after its enactment or ratification." Id. at 605 (original emphasis). The RLPA debates showed public understanding both because the interest groups were involved, and because the legislators involved were acting like readers of statutes. They were not attempting to explain in 1999 what they had been thinking in 1993. They were taking the statutory text at face value, and in light of RFRA's no-exceptions principle, and attempting to legislate against that background. The RLPA debates are also, for those who consider legislative history, pre-enactment history of the amendment strengthening Section 2 of RFRA. 2. RLPA Became Entangled in a Debate Over Its Effect on Civil-Rights Claims. Between the enactment of RFRA in 1993, and the critical debate on RLPA in 1999, state and federal courts decided a series of cases in which religious landlords refused to rent to unmarried couples. The couples sued for marital-status discrimination. The cases went both ways, but they suggested a potential for conflict between religious liberty and other civil rights and for religious-liberty claims by for-profit investors. See Thomas v. Anchorage Equal Rights Commission, 165 F.3d 692 (9th Cir. 1999) (ruling for landlord on federal free-exercise grounds), vacated on other grounds, 220 F.3d 1134 (2000) (en banc); McCready v. Hoffius, 586 N.W.2d 723 (Mich. 1998) (finding compelling interest and noting that landlords could get out of the rental business), vacated in part, 593 N.W.2d 545 (1999); Smith v. Fair Employment & Housing Commission, 913 P.2d 909 (Cal. 1996) (finding no substantial burden on religious exercise, because landlords could get out of the rental business); Swanner v. Anchorage Equal Rights Commission, 874 P.2d 274 (Alaska 1994) (finding compelling interest in uniform enforcement of non-discrimination laws); Attorney General v. Desilets, 636 N.E.2d 233 (Mass. 1994) (holding that government must show compelling interest to override landlords' state-law free-exercise rights); see also State by Cooper v. French, 460 N.W.2d 2 (Minn. 1990) (interpreting state's ban on marital-status discrimination not to apply, and also relying on state constitution's free-exercise clause). The landlord-tenant cases are reviewed in the committee report on RLPA. H.R. Rep. 106- 219, at 14. This conflict quickly became a serious obstacle to the passage of RLPA. The House and Senate held a total of nine hearings in a futile effort to work out the disagreements. Protecting Religious Freedom After Boerne v. Flores: Hearing Before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the House Committee on the Judiciary (July 14, 1997); Protecting Religious Freedom After Boerne v. Flores (Part II): Hearing Before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the House Committee on the Judiciary (Feb. 26, 1998); Protecting Religious Freedom After Boerne v. Flores (Part III): Hearing Before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the House Committee on the Judiciary (March 26, 1998); Religious Liberty Protection Act of 1998: Hearings Before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the House Committee on the Judiciary on H.R. 4019 (June 16 and July 14, 1998); Religious Liberty Protection Act of 1999: Hearing Before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the House Committee on the Judiciary on H.R. 1691 (May 12, 1999); Religious Liberty Protection Act of 1998: Hearing Before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on S. 2148 (June 23, 1998); Religious Liberty: Hearing Before the Senate Committee on the Judiciary on Issues Relating to Religious Liberty Protection, and Focusing on the Constitutionality of a Religious Protection Measure (June 23 and September 9, 1999). (Hearings are cited hereafter by House or Senate and date.) The Court has recognized that these hearings on RLPA are part of the legislative history of RLUIPA, the bill that emerged from these debates. Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S. 709, 716 & n.5 (2005). In February 1998, the landlord in one of the marital status cases testified about RLPA before the House Subcommittee on the Constitution. Americans United for Separation of Church and State responded, urging legislators to disavow any intention to "broadly protect religious claims against federal and state anti-discrimination laws." The dispute escalated from there. Mr Scott, then the ranking Democrat on the subcommittee, said in his opening statement at the next hearing that the bill "will have to steer clear of any disruption of any Civil Rights laws." (Committee and subcommittee members are listed in hearing records at p. ii). In this and later hearings, witnesses supporting the bill argued that there were many kinds of civil-rights claims, that religious conscientious objectors should and would lose most civil-rights cases but that they should win some, and that RFRA's general standard should be applied in this context as in all others. They again invoked the no-exceptions principle, both on principle and to prevent the bill from unraveling amid multiple demands for special exceptions. This testimony came in prepared statements and also in response to active questioning on the issue from committee members. Opponents mostly worked behind the scenes until a landlord won a high-profile case in the Ninth Circuit early in 1999. Then opponents appeared at hearings and testified that civil-rights claimants should not have to litigate an uncertain religious-liberty defense, that every civil-rights claim serves a compelling interest by the least-restrictive means, and that the bill should be rejected unless amended to exclude all civil-rights claims. The bill's lead sponsor in the House described the resulting fight this way: "I think what all of this is about, if we get right down to the facts of what is motivating this, was a 9th Circuit case in which a small religious landlord challenging a housing law was granted an exemption from compliance." 145 Cong. Rec. 16,236 (July 15, 1999) (Mr Canady). 3. This Debate Confirmed That the Public Meaning of RFRA's Language Protects For-Profit Corporations and Their Owners. The demand for a civil-rights exception culminated in the Nadler Amendment. We quote extensively from the debate on this amendment, to give the full views and context. These are not scattered quotations from possibly marginal legislators. These are the considered views of the leaders on both sides after grappling with the issue for seventeen months. Mr Nadler had been a lead sponsor of RFRA (H.R. 1308 in the 103d Congress) and initially, one of the two original bipartisan sponsors of RLPA (H.R. 4019 in the 105th Congress). He drafted his amendment "in consultation with both religious and civil rights groups." H.R. Rep. 106-219, at 41 (dissenting views of Mr Nadler and three others). He offered his amendment in the subcommittee and again in the full committee. Ibid. Committee discussion of his amendment occurred in markup sessions, which are not published. While he discussed his amendment with interest groups, ibid., and probably shared the text with some of them, the text of his amendment became public only in the floor debate. Mr Nadler cast his amendment not as an exception for certain kinds of claims, but as a limitation on who could invoke RLPA in response to those claims. In his dissent from the committee report, he described his amendment in terms much like the government's argument in this case: It sought to clarify that religious liberty is an individual right expressed by individuals and through religious associations, educational institutions and houses of worship. It would have made clear that the right to raise a claim under RLPA would have applied to that individual right, but that non-religious corporate entities could not seek refuge in a religious claim under RLPA to attack civil rights laws. Ibid. The committee majority referred only to an "issue," not to an amendment, and it affirmed its understanding that business corporations would be protected by the bill: One issue raised during the Subcommittee Markup was whether a business corporation could make a claim under H.R. 1691. The requirement of H.R. 1691 that the claimant demonstrate a substantial burden on religious exercise is equally applicable whether a claimant is a natural person or a corporation. Most corporations are not engaged in the exercise of religion, but religious believers, such as people in the Kosher slaughter business, should not be precluded from bringing a claim under H.R. 1691 simply because they incorporated their activities pursuant to existing law. H.R. Rep. 106-219, at 13 n.49 (emphasis added). It is true that most corporations are not engaged in the exercise of religion, but as the committee report recognized, it is equally true that some corporations, or their owners, are engaged in the exercise of religion. By allowing corporations to make a claim, the committee majority allowed for these cases. The Nadler Amendment, as offered on the floor, was a limitation on the persons who could assert RLPA defenses to civil-rights claims. It would have excluded all but the tiniest corporations from invoking RLPA in such cases, by adding the following language to Section 4 of the bill: (e) PERSONS WHO MAY RAISE A CLAIM OR DEFENSE - A person who may raise a claim or defense under subsection (a) is - (1) an owner of a dwelling described in section 803(b) of the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3603(b)), with respect to a prohibition relating to discrimination in housing; (2) with respect to a prohibition against discrimination in employment - (A) a religious corporation, association, educational institution (as described in 42 U.S.C. 2000e-2(e)), or society, with respect to the employment of individuals who perform duties such as spreading or teaching faith, other instructional functions, performing or assisting in devotional services, or activities relating to the internal governance of such corporation, association, educational institution, or society in the carrying on of its activities; or (B) an entity employing 5 or fewer individuals; or (3) any other person, with respect to an assertion of any other claim or defense relating to a law other than a law - (A) prohibiting discrimination in housing and employment, except as described in paragraphs (1) and (2); or (B) prohibiting discrimination in a public accommodation. 145 Cong. Rec. 16,233-34. The housing exception in subsection (1) is limited to buildings with four or fewer units, one of which is occupied by the owner, and to certain private sales or rentals of single-family residences. 42 U.S.C. 3603(b). The statutory reference in subsection (2)(A) is to one of Title VII's exemptions for religious employers. Supporters of the Nadler Amendment argued that without it, Section 2 of RLPA - the language copied from Section 2 of RFRA - would protect for-profit corporations. This was a recurring theme of the debate. Mr Conyers, who was the ranking Democrat on the House Judiciary Committee and who managed the debate for supporters of the Nadler Amendment, began by describing the landlord-tenant cases: "Now, none of these claims involve owner-occupied housing. All of the landlords owned many investment properties that were outside of the State laws sic exemptions for small landlords. These landlords are companies. And they all sought to turn the shield of religious exercise protection into a sword against civil rights prospective tenants." quoting a letter from the ACLU. So the bill is so sweeping that this new defense will not only apply to religious institutions themselves but to companies and corporations as well. 145 Cong. Rec. 16,220 (emphasis added). The government uses the same sword and shield metaphor here. Cert. Pet. 16. Mr Nadler agreed with Mr Conyers: The bill as drafted would enable the CEO of a large corporation to say, "my religion prohibits me from letting my corporation hire a divorced person or a disabled person or a mother who should be at home with her children and not at work or a gay or lesbian person. And my religion prohibits me from letting my hotel rent a room to any such people. And never mind the State's civil rights laws that prohibit that kind of discrimination." Id. at 16,225 (emphasis added). Mr Conyers spoke again: The right is so sweeping it will apply not only to religious institutions, but to large corporations. This means that under the bill, businesses will be free to discriminate against gay and lesbian employees, and large landlords will be able to justify their refusal to rent to single parents or gays and lesbians. Id. at 16,226 (emphasis added). Mr Frank, a member of the committee and subcommittee and an original sponsor of RFRA in the 101st Congress (H.R. 5377), made the same point. He noted that the recently enacted Texas RFRA had excluded all civil-rights claims, but that the Nadler Amendment did not go so far: "I think that is a very reasonable accommodation the gentleman has offered. He has said you do not give it to corporations, et cetera." Id. at 16,229 (emphasis added). Mr Nadler resumed the floor, again previewing the arguments in this case: The amendment recognizes that religious rights are rights that belong to individuals and to religious assemblies and institutions. General Motors does not have sincerely held religious beliefs, by its nature. My amendment protects individual sic and religious institutions. In order to protect civil rights laws against the person who would say, "My religion prohibits me from letting my corporation hire a divorced person or a disabled person, in order to protect civil rights laws against that sort of religious claim, the amendment places some limits on who may raise a claim under this bill against the application of a State or local law. Id. at 16,234-35 (emphasis added). "Some limits." Without his amendment, Mr Nadler plainly understood that there were no limits on who could raise a claim or defense - that "person" had its full Dictionary Act meaning. Mr Nadler emphasized that his amendment merely created "narrow exceptions" to the parties who could invoke the Act. Id. at 16,235. Subject only to these exceptions, businesses of any size could bring any free exercise claims. This is important for the mom and pop store that has difficulties with Sunday closing laws, or with laws allowing malls requiring stores to remain open 7 days a week, as well as for large firms that, for example, produce kosher meat or other products. Ibid. (emphasis added). And this statement described what the law would be if his amendment were adopted. "Businesses of any size" could still bring RLPA claims, except in discrimination cases. The claims in Hobby Lobby and Conestoga Wood, seeking exemption from regulations under the Affordable Care Act, could still have been brought even if the Nadler Amendment had been added to RFRA. Those who opposed the Nadler Amendment agreed that businesses and corporations could assert claims and defenses under the bill as drafted. They had explicitly affirmed that proposition in the committee report. H.R. Rep. 106-219, at 13 n.49, quoted supra 20. They stuck to their position that these claims should be evaluated under the same standard as all other claims. And they emphasized that the language of the bill had already been approved in RFRA. Mr Canady, Chairman of the Subcommittee on the Constitution and the bill's lead sponsor, who managed the floor debate for the bill's supporters, summed up: Like the Religious Freedom Restoration Act, the Religious Liberty Protection Act is intended to provide a uniform standard of review for religious liberty claims. H.R. 1961 sic employs the "compelling interest/least restrictive means" test for all Americans who seek relief from substantial burdens on their religious exercise. Under the amendment offered by the gentleman from New York, only a preferred category of plaintiffs are granted this protection. The gentleman can describe it as a "carve in" or a "carve out," but the fact is some people are not going to get the protection that the bill would otherwise afford them. 145 Cong. Rec. 16,235 (emphasis added). Mr Canady denied that General Motors would have a claim, but not because General Motors was not a "person" protected by the Act. Rather, General Motors would lose on the merits: The argument that General Motors would have such a claim ignores the requirement of the bill that a claimant prove that his religious liberty has been substantially burdened by the government. I do not think that General Motors or Exxon Corporation or any other such large corporation that the gentleman wants to bring forward could come within a mile of showing that anything that was done would substantially infringe on their religious beliefs. They do not have a religious belief. They do not have a religious practice. It is not in the nature of such large corporations to have such religious beliefs or practices. Id. at 16,235-36. Mr Canady said that large corporations such as General Motors and Exxon did not have religious beliefs or practices, but he did not say that smaller corporations, or closely held corporations, or their owners, could not have religious beliefs and practices. Rather, he said that all claims should be evaluated under RLPA's general standard: H.R. 1691 will continue in this RFRA's tradition weighing and balancing competing interests based on real facts before the Court. Religious interests will not always prevail, nor will those of the government. But the Nadler amendment would determine in advance that the interest of the Government will always prevail in certain cases. This is not what this Congress intended when it passed RFRA unanimously here in the House and is not the type of law I believe the American citizens want their Congress to enact. Id. at 16,236. He reminded members that Congress had already approved the unamended language: The groups that urge adoption of this amendment did not find similar fault with the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. And I know that is not something that the proponents of this amendment want to hear about. That was then and this is now. But all the arguments related to civil rights that have been advanced today were equally applicable to the Religious Freedom Restoration Act. Ibid. (emphasis added). Nobody disputed that. Mr Frank said the unamended bill would protect the religious-liberty interests of stockholders and leave it to the courts to decide whether the government's interest was compelling. Speaking first of potential civil-rights claimants, he said: If they are an unmarried couple seeking to live together, it will be up to the Federal Government to judge whether or not they can rent an apartment from a corporation, the stockholders of which said it is their religious objection. Id. at 16,240 (emphasis added). Mr Conyers argued that even with the Nadler Amendment, the bill would still protect very small businesses, even in discrimination cases: My colleagues, as the bill presently stands, whenever a parties sic brings suit claiming discrimination, the defendant will be able to claim that this is inconsistent with their religious beliefs. We are creating a huge disparity here. The Nadler amendment responds to the problem, thank goodness, by specifying that the bill's protections only apply to individuals, religious institutions, and small businesses. Id. at 16,241. Ms Jackson Lee, a member of the Judiciary Committee, also previewed the government's argument in these cases: The amendment, crafted in consultation with both religious and civil rights groups clarifies the fact that religious liberty is an individual right expressed by individuals and through religious associations, educational institutions and houses of worship. It also makes clear that the right to raise a claim under RLPA applies to that individual. A non-religious corporate entities sic could not use a RLPA for a claim or defense to attack civil rights laws. Individuals, under this amendment, could still raise a claim based on their sincerely held religious beliefs which are substantially burdened by the government, whether in the conduct of their businesses or anywhere else. Id. at 16,242 (emphasis added). There were other statements to similar effect, but these quotations cover the essential arguments. Members on both sides believed that the bill as drafted protected everyone, including large corporations if they could show a religious practice that was substantially burdened. The language creating that protection was copied directly from Section 2 of RFRA. Supporters of the Nadler Amendment knew they needed an amendment to exclude corporate claims, and they knew that they had not gotten such an amendment to RFRA. The Nadler Amendment would have left RFRA's language in place, and applicable to most claims, but it would have confined RLPA protection with respect to civil-rights claims to the very smallest businesses. There was no disagreement about what the bill meant or what the amendment meant; the disagreement was over whether to adopt the amendment. Thus informed, the House rejected the Nadler Amendment on a roll-call vote, 234-190. Id. at 16,244. It then passed the unamended bill, also on a roll-call vote, 306-118. Id. at 16,245. 4. The Ensuing Senate Debate Led to the Enactment of RLUIPA and the Strengthening of RFRA. RLPA died without a recorded vote in the Senate, where the civil-rights objection could not be overcome and the sponsors still refused to make exceptions. But Senators Kennedy and Hatch created a new bill, S. 2869, from the parts of RLPA that had sufficient support. This bill became law as the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA), 42 U.S.C. 2000cc et seq. Section 7 of RLUIPA amended RFRA in ways that both strengthened and reaffirmed it. First, Congress deleted all references to state law, making clear its commitment to keeping RFRA in effect as to federal law. Second, Congress incorporated into RFRA the stronger, more protective, definition of "exercise of religion" drafted for RLPA and enacted in RLUIPA. That definition, responding to certain lower court cases, clarified that "any" exercise of religion is protected, "whether or not compelled by, or central to, a system of religious belief." 42 U.S.C. 2000cc-5(7)(A); 42 U.S.C. 2000bb-2(4). This definition further strengthened Section 2 of RFRA, the section that had caused all the trouble - the section that everyone agreed already protected for-profit corporations even before it was strengthened. 5. This Debate Shows the Meaning of RFRA. Summing up: the relevant language of RLPA was substantively identical to the relevant language of RFRA. Both sides agreed that that language protected for-profit corporations and their owners. The public meaning of this language was not disputed. But the policy embodied in this meaning had become controversial as applied to civil-rights claims. Congress could not agree on whether to make that language, with that meaning, broadly applicable to the states. But Congress did agree to keep that language in place as applied to the federal government, to reaffirm that application, and even to broaden its scope by emphasizing that the "exercise of religion" means "any" exercise of religion. Even the supporters of the amendment sought to exclude corporate claims only with respect to civil rights laws. Apart from civil-rights laws, both sides agreed that religious-liberty claims arising in for-profit businesses, including businesses conducted in corporate form, should be protected under the general standard that RLPA had copied from RFRA. This is a much clearer and far more specific demonstration of statutory meaning than anything offered by the government. And it is entirely consistent with the emphasis on a single standard, universally applicable to all claims, in the statutory text and legislative history of RFRA. The government says that if RFRA had been intended to apply to claims by for-profit corporations, "there would surely have been some express mention of that intent." Pet. Br. 21, No. 13-354. In fact there was ample discussion of a broadly shared understanding of that very point. 6. The Claims in These Cases Are Covered by RFRA as Both Sides Understood It. Apart from their disagreement over civil-rights claims, both sides agreed that the language copied from RFRA did, and should, cover corporations engaged in intrinsically religious businesses, such as kosher slaughterhouses. See supra 20 (committee report); id. at 25 (Mr Nadler). Mardel is engaged in such a business. Both sides also agreed that the language copied from RFRA covered incorporated businesses with religious owners whose personal religious practices were burdened by regulation of their corporation. See supra 20 (committee report) (believers should not lose rights by incorporating); id. at 24-25 (Mr Nadler) ("my corporation," "mom and pop stores"); id. at 28-29 (Mr Frank) (stockholders). Mr Nadler added that the CEO would be covered. Id. at 23. Apart from their disagreement over civil-rights claims, both sides thought that this coverage was important to the bill. Realistically, only closely held corporations could show a substantial burden on their owners' religious exercise. Large corporations with religiously diverse owners are covered "persons," but they could not show a substantial burden. The Greens and the Hahns can show a substantial burden, and they are clearly protected under the public understanding reviewed here. There is no reasonable dispute that they have a sincere and deeply held religious objection to paying, through their corporations or otherwise, to provide drugs and devices that they believe may cause abortions. The government's argument that RFRA does not even apply is based entirely on the formalisms of incorporation. Congress rejected those formalisms. Hobby Lobby, Mardel, and Conestoga Wood are protected because their owners are protected. C. This Debate Also Confirms That RFRA Applies to Suits by Private Plaintiffs. This debate also refutes the government's suggestion that RFRA might not apply to suits between private parties. Pet. Br. 43-45, No. 13-354. The entire debate about a civil-rights exception and the Nadler Amendment was conducted on the basis of a shared public understanding that RFRA applied, and that the same language in RLPA would apply unless amended, to suits by private plaintiffs alleging discrimination. In addition, the language on which the government relies for this point ("obtain appropriate relief against a government") was included for reasons going to sovereign immunity. The drafting history of RFRA is very clear that this language was never intended to preclude a RFRA defense in suits by private plaintiffs. See Shruti Chaganti, Note, Why the Religious Freedom Restoration Act Provides a Defense in Suits by Private Plaintiffs, 99 Va. L. Rev. 343, 348- 55 (2013). II. Protecting For-Profit Corporations Is Consistent with Larger Traditions of Religious Liberty. A. Congress and the States Have Often Protected Conscientious Objectors Operating For Profit. The government cites one of the Title VII exemptions for religious employers as illustrating a tradition of statutory protection confined to not-for-profit religious corporations. Pet. Br. 20, No. 13-354, citing 42 U.S.C. 2000e-1(a). This and similar statutes are not in point here; they provide a very different kind of exemption. The Title VII exemption protects the autonomy of religious organizations. It permits religious organizations to prefer fellow believers with respect to any employee hired "to perform work connected with the carrying on by such corporation, association, educational institution, or society of its activities." Ibid. The exception applies even if an employee's duties are not " 'even tangentially related to any conceivable religious belief or ritual.' " Corporation of the Presiding Bishop v. Amos, 483 U.S. 327, 332 (1987) (quoting the district court in that case). The exemption does not require proof of a substantial burden on religious exercise. It does not require proof that hiring nonbelievers would be a violation of conscience. Far more relevant here are the state and federal conscience statutes protecting medical providers from performing or assisting abortions. These provisions do protect conscience, and they protect every "individual or entity," 42 U.S.C. 300a-7, or "any health care entity," 42 U.S.C. 238n. Nearly every state has similar legislation. These statutes protect doctors operating for profit, even if they incorporated their medical practice, and they protect incorporated for-profit hospitals. These statutes reflect a judgment by American legislatures that conscientious objectors to abortion should not be required to participate in one. B. The Tradition of Protecting Conscientious Objectors Is Especially Broad and Deep with Respect to Taking Human Life. These abortion-conscience statutes are especially relevant here because the plaintiffs in these two cases object only to drugs and devices believed to sometimes cause abortions. Just as a for-profit hospital cannot be required to passively allow its facilities to be used to perform an abortion, 42 U.S.C. 300a7(b)(2), so a for-profit employer should not be required to actively pay for what its owners believe to be abortions. More generally, conscientious scruples against taking human life have gotten the highest protection throughout our history. American exemptions from military service date at least to 1673. This Court stretched the statutory exemption to military service to protect conscientious objectors who were not religious in any traditional sense. Welsh v. United States, 398 U.S. 333 (1970). All the abortion-conscience statutes appear to protect secular as well as religious conscientious objectors. The two states with legislation authorizing assisted suicide provide that no health-care provider can be required to participate or to allow the suicide to occur on its premises. Or. Rev. Stat. 127.885(4), (5)(a) (West Supp. 2013); Wash. Rev. Code 70.245.190(1)(d), (2)(a) (2012). These provisions plainly protect for-profit physicians, hospitals, nursing homes, and hospices. It appears that no one has ever been required to participate in executions, and Congress and eleven of the capital-punishment states have now enacted express conscience protections. See Mark L. Rienzi, The Constitutional Right Not to Kill, 62 Emory L.J. 121, 137-38 (2012). The RLPA debates make clear that for-profit corporations and their owners are protected by RFRA. But any residual doubts should be resolved in favor of protection in this context, where the plaintiffs are being asked to pay for what they believe to be the killing of an innocent human being. The government does not think that that is what it is asking, but there is no dispute that the plaintiffs sincerely understand it in just that way The government's argument has no limits. If the Greens and the Hahns forfeited their rights to religious liberty when they incorporated their businesses - and that is the government's position with respect to any regulation of the corporations - then it would not matter if the government required coverage for all abortions, by any method, in any trimester. It would not matter if the government required coverage for partial-birth abortions, or assisted suicides, or unconsented euthanasia. The government's argument cuts off all claims at the threshold, without regard to the weight of competing interests. Congress more wisely provided that all claims should be assessed under RFRA's uniform statutory standard. The government's position appears to be that once they incorporate, the Greens and the Hahns have no religious rights that a government is bound to respect. The corporation can be required to do absolutely anything, and the individual owners who carry out the corporation's work have no religious-liberty right to complain. This level of formalism is not our tradition with respect to the moral responsibility of corporate owners and managers. If Mardel sold child pornography instead of Christian books, the government would not allow the Greens, actively involved as shareholders, directors, officers, and managers, to defend on the ground that "It wasn't me; the corporation did it." See Alexander v. United States, 509 U.S. 544 (1993). Alexander was convicted of obscenity and RICO offenses because corporations he owned sold obscene films. The government can, and in some contexts does, impose criminal liability on corporate officers who failed to prevent corporate wrongdoing of which they had no knowledge. United States v. Park, 421 U.S. 658, 670-73 (1975). It is no answer for the government to say that it has not imposed such liability here. Pet. Br. 27, No. 13-354. Widely shared moral beliefs hold those who control or manage corporations responsible for corporate wrongdoing. The government often shares those beliefs when enforcing the criminal law. There is nothing unusual about the Greens and the Hahns believing that they would be morally responsible for causing their corporations to pay for abortifacients. And it would be a shocking omission if their claims were wholly excluded from RFRA. It is entirely consistent with our tradition of religious liberty to read RFRA as Congress wrote it, and as Congress understood it in the RLPA debates - as protecting all persons, including for-profit corporations and their owners, when the owners can show a substantial burden on their exercise of religion. C. Excluding Religious Minorities from Businesses and Professions Is an Historic Means of Persecution That Must Be Covered by RFRA. In eighteenth-century Ireland, it was generally illegal for a Catholic to keep more than two apprentices. If your business grew to where you needed three apprentices, you were out of luck. Other laws imposed similar disabilities somewhat less directly. Anyone holding a civil or military office, or receiving pay by reason of a royal grant, or any school-master, barrister, solicitor, or notary, was required to take an anti-Catholic oath. These and other examples were recent history to the Founders. If you take seriously the belief that a new human life begins at conception, and if your business grows to the point where you need to incorporate it, the government says you are similarly out of luck in this country. Violate your faith, or sell your business. The exclusion is imposed one step less directly than the English anti-Catholic oaths; it is imposed by a law that is claimed to be neutral and generally applicable. But that is no distinction; the very purpose of RFRA was to address substantial burdens on religious exercise imposed by neutral and generally applicable laws. The Free Exercise Clause must be understood at least to address historically familiar means of religious persecution. And RFRA must be understood at least to address the same substantial burdens when imposed by neutral and generally applicable laws. The government's position is inconsistent with these premises. It says that once a business incorporates, the owners lose all religious-liberty rights with respect to that business. For the devout, the result may be that the owners are forced out of the business, or here, forced out of any business that grows to fifty employees and needs to incorporate. Fifty employees is a more generous limit than two apprentices, but the principle is the same. Limiting the size of business that can be owned by religious minorities is an historic wrong. Enforcing RFRA according to its universal language, as all understood it in the RLPA debates, will prevent the repetition of that historic wrong. CONCLUSION The Court should hold that for-profit corporations and their owners are protected by the Religious Freedom Restoration Act and its generally applicable standards of exercise of religion, substantial burden, compelling interest, and least-restrictive means. The judgment in Hobby Lobby should be affirmed; the judgment in Conestoga Wood should be reversed. 