The amici curiae are the National Health Law Program, American Public Health Association, National Family Planning & Reproductive Health Association, National Women's Health Network, National Latina Institute for Reproductive Health, National Asian Pacific American Women's Forum, Asian Americans Advancing Justice, Asian & Pacific Islander American Health Forum, Black Women's Health Imperative, Forward Together, National Hispanic Medical Association, Ipas, Sexuality Information and Education Council of the U.S. (SIECUS), HIV Law Project, Christie's Place, National Women and AIDS Collective, California Women's Law Center, and Housing Works. While each amicus has particular interests, they collectively bring to the Court an in depth understanding of the standards of care and existing federal laws that address the use and coverage of preventive reproductive health services. The amici want to bring accurate information on these topics to the Court as it considers the legality of the requirements for preventive health care services under 2713(a)(4) of the Public Health Service Act, added by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT The ACA recognizes that preventive health services are critical to individual and community health. It accordingly requires new group health plans and health insurance issuers to cover such additional women's preventive health care services as provided for in guidelines supported by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA). By doing so, the ACA recognizes that women have unique reproductive and gender specific health needs. Well-established standards of medical care and prevailing federal laws and policies predating the ACA recognize that family planning services are essential preventive care for women. The contraceptive coverage requirement adds to these larger federal policies and seeks to ensure that health plans sold in the individual and small group markets cover essential preventive services for women. ARGUMENT I. Accepted evidence-based standards of medical care recognize that contraception is essential preventive care for women. This case concerns the ACA and United States Department of Health and Human Services' (HHS) requirement that most new health insurance plans cover women's preventive health services, including contraception. This requirement is in accord with accepted standards of medical care recognized by various professional medical academies and associations. According to the American Medical Association's (AMA) Council on Ethical and Judicial Affairs, a standard of care is "'that level of care, skill and treatment' which a 'reasonable and prudent physician similarly situated would provide under similar circumstances.'" Standards are based on "information from clinical experience that has met some established set of validity, and the appropriate standard is determined according to the requirements of the intervention and clinical circumstance." Researchers consider a variety of evidence in developing standards. Generally, standards are based on large quantities of evidence from empirical studies, but clinicians' practice experiences may also contribute to their development. Prevailing standards of medical care recognize family planning services as a necessary component of preventive care for women. These standards are reflected in the formal practice recommendations of health care professional associations such as the American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (ACOG), the Society of Family Planning, the American Academy of Pediatrics (AAP), the Society for Adolescent Medicine, the AMA, the American Public Health Association (APHA), and the Association of Women's Health, Obstetric and Neonatal Nurses, all of which "recommend use of family planning as part of preventive care for women." For example, ACOG recommends that women have access to family planning services. According to the American Academy of Family Physicians, effective contraceptive use is a component of preconception care for all women who are not planning to become pregnant. The APHA has endorsed universal access to contraception for over thirty years. Similarly, the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's (CDC) Agency for Toxic Substances and Diseases Registry concludes that preconception (before pregnancy) and inter-conception (between pregnancies) care should include family planning counseling along with health insurance coverage of contraceptives, because, among other things, this coverage can reduce the risk of maternal and infant mortality and pregnancy-related complications. The AMA supports these CDC recommendations. These recommendations are particularly important for women of color who disproportionately experience chronic health conditions such as diabetes, heart disease, and obesity, all of which may be exacerbated by pregnancy. In particular, these conditions underlie complications related to pregnancy or childbirth that contribute to the disproportionate maternal mortality rate among African American women. AAP and ACOG further recommend that every visit with a woman's clinician include a reproductive health screen and related counseling. If pregnancy is not desired, AAP and ACOG standards call for the clinician and patient to discuss contraceptive options and proper use of the woman's chosen contraceptive method. The discussion between the woman and her clinician is to "assist the woman in identifying the most appropriate and effective method for her" needs. A. Standards of care recommend effective contraceptive use for pregnancy spacing. Unintended pregnancy is associated with poor health outcomes, maternal morbidity and mortality, and risky health behaviors. The World Health Organization's standards of care recommend that a woman space her pregnancies at least two years apart so that her body can properly recover. According to ACOG, women who become pregnant less than six months after their previous pregnancy are seventy percent more likely to have membranes surrounding the fetus rupture prematurely and are at a significantly higher risk of other complications. Research also shows that short birth intervals are associated with higher than average rates of low birth weight and neonatal death. Thus, the professional associations, including the AMA and ACOG, recommend that women have access to contraceptive counseling and services, which will enable them to appropriately space their pregnancies. B. Standards of care recommend that women taking drugs contraindicated for pregnancy have access to contraception. Access to contraception is critical for women taking medications that pose serious risks for maternal and fetal health. A number of commonly prescribed pharmaceuticals are known to cause impairments in the developing fetus or to create adverse health conditions for the pregnant woman. Approximately 11.7 million prescriptions for drugs, which the United States Food & Drug Administration (FDA) has categorized as Pregnancy Category D (there is evidence of fetal harm, but potential benefits may warrant use despite the harm) or Category X (contraindicated in women who are or may become pregnant because the risks of use of the drugs by a pregnant woman outweigh the potential benefits) are filled by significant numbers of women of reproductive age each year. Approximately 5.8% of pregnancies in the United States are exposed to Category D or X drugs. Multiple studies recommend that women of reproductive age who are taking these drugs use a reliable form of contraception to prevent pregnancy. For example, Isotretinoin, a drug used to treat severe cystic acne, can cause multiple fetal impairments. The FDA requires that women of reproductive age who are taking this drug agree to use two forms of contraception. Iodine 131, which is used to treat hyperthyroidism and cancer, is another example of a drug for which pregnancy is contraindicated because it may destroy the developing fetus. ACOG recommends that women taking Iodine 131 avoid pregnancy. C. Standards of care recommend that women with heart conditions have access to contraception. Heart disease is the number one cause of death for women in the United States. African American women have twice the age standardized rate of fatal incidence of cardiovascular disease as white women. Hispanic and non-Hispanic Black women are also more likely to have multiple risk factors for heart disease, including high blood pressure, diabetes, and obesity. There are a number of cardiac conditions, like valvular heart lesions, that are poorly tolerated given the physiological changes brought about during pregnancy. The American College of Cardiology and the American Heart Association Task Force on Practice Guidelines have issued specific recommendations for preconception management of women with valvular heart disease. These guidelines recommend that management include provision of information about contraception and maternal and fetal risks of pregnancy. These professional associations recommend that clinicians counsel women with certain heart conditions, including valvular heart disease, against pregnancy. The decision of whether to use contraception is, however, ultimately left to the woman. D. Standards of care recommend that women with diabetes have access to contraception. Standards of medical care also advise women with diabetes to prevent pregnancy until their condition is under control. People with diabetes either produce insufficient insulin or cannot properly use insulin. An estimated 10-18% of nonpregnant women of reproductive age have some type of abnormal glucose tolerance that carries maternal and fetal risks if they become pregnant. Pregestational diabetes mellitus is a type of diabetes in women that develops before they become pregnant. Pregestational diabetes is observed in about one percent of all pregnancies. The type 2 diabetes prevalence rate is higher for women of color. Moreover, "compared with non-Hispanic white adults, the risk of diagnosed diabetes was 18 percent higher among Asian Americans, 66 percent higher among Hispanics/Latinos, and 77 percent higher among non-Hispanic blacks." Latinas also have higher rates of gestational diabetes than non-Hispanic white women, which puts them at greater risk for type 2 diabetes later in life. The failure to manage glucose levels during and before pregnancy can lead to serious complications and harm maternal and infant health. For example, women with poorly controlled pregestational diabetes are at an increased risk of hypoglycemia, blindness, complications from chronic hypertension, and life-threatening complications from coronary heart disease. Further, diabetic nephropathy-a significant complication of diabetes, the leading cause of renal failure, and a critical factor affecting pregnancy outcomes-affects six percent of pregnant women with type 1 diabetes. The failure to manage glucose during preconception has been linked to malformations in infants and spontaneous abortion. The American Diabetes Association (ADA) and ACOG have issued standards of practice guidelines for preconception care for women with pregestational diabetes. According to the ADA, "planned pregnancies greatly facilitate preconception diabetes care." The ADA standards of care for women with diabetes with childbearing potential include: (1) "use of effective contraception at all times, unless the patient is in good metabolic control and actively trying to conceive" and (2) counseling about the risk of fetal impairment associated with unplanned pregnancies and poor metabolic control. ACOG recommends that women have glucose levels under control before becoming pregnant to decrease the likelihood of spontaneous abortion, fetal malformation, and fetal or infant death. E. Standards of care recommend that women with lupus have access to contraception. Contraception is a critical service for women with lupus. Lupus is an auto-immune disorder, which can affect multiple parts of the body, including skin, joints, blood, and kidneys and that has multiple end-organ involvement. Often called a "woman's disease," nine out of ten people with lupus are women. The incidence rate for lupus is two to three times higher for African American women than for Caucasian women. Lupus is also more common in women of Latina, Asian, and Native American decent. Women with lupus who become pregnant face particularly increased risks of health complications. A large review of United States hospital data found that the risk of maternal death for women with lupus is twenty times the risk for pregnant women without lupus. Women with lupus are three to seven times more likely to suffer from thrombosis, infection, renal failure, hypertension, and preeclampsia. The National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) has issued a standard of care recommending that women with lupus take these health risks and complications into consideration in determining whether to become pregnant or to carry a pregnancy to term and that physicians counsel women to use contraception until their condition is under control. Because of the multiple and life-threatening risks associated with lupus, NIAMS recommends that women delay pregnancy until there are no signs or symptoms of lupus. The NIAMS standard accordingly instructs women with lupus to use contraception: "Do not stop using your method of birth control until you have discussed the possibility of pregnancy with your doctor and he or she has determined that you are healthy enough to become pregnant." The CDC's clinical guidance similarly concludes that unintended pregnancy presents an unacceptable health risk for women with lupus and, therefore, recommends that clinicians advise women with lupus that using only barrier or behavior-based methods of contraception may not be appropriate. Practice guidelines are clear: women require information about and access to contraceptives to prevent pregnancy. By requiring new group health plans and health insurance issuers to cover women's preventive care services, the ACA recognizes that women have unique reproductive and gender-specific health needs. HHS' decision to adopt the IOM's recommendation that women receive coverage for all FDA-approved methods of contraception free of cost-sharing comports with well-established standards of medical care. II. Contraceptive coverage is widely required through federal laws and policies predating the ACA. The ACA and HHS coverage provisions reflect a long history of federal legislation which requires coverage of preventive contraceptive counseling, services, and supplies. In 1973, Congress enacted the Health Maintenance Organization (HMO) Act to encourage the delivery of health care through the HMO model. The Act applies to private health plans that apply for federal qualification, a designation that enables HMOs to, among other things, avoid state laws more restrictive than the HMO Act. The HMO Act identifies basic health services that HMOs must provide.67 "Basic health services" include "family planning services." The Federal Employees Health Benefits (FEHB) program also covers family planning services. The FEHB program provides employee health benefits to civilian government employees and annuitants of the United States government. The United States Office of Personnel Management contracts with qualified private insurance carriers to offer health care plans through the FEHB program. As part of the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1999, Congress approved a "contraceptive equity provision" requiring most FEHB plans to cover contraception. Accordingly, the United States Office of Personnel Management requires all FEHB plans to cover the full range of FDA-approved contraceptive drugs and devices. As amended in 1998, the FEHB program includes specifically enumerated religious health plans that do not have to cover contraception, and authorizes inclusion of future plans objecting to such coverage "on the basis of religious beliefs." However, the decision of whether to take up contraceptive coverage is left to the employee, who can choose from up to 300 plans, most of which cover contraception. This coverage, then, is different from a refusal clause that would allow any employer to opt out of providing female employees preventive health care benefits because of the employer's religious beliefs. Unlike the FEHB program, such a proposal would leave employees without plan options that include preventive care coverage. Federal legislation regulating health services available to military personnel and their families also requires coverage of preventive contraceptive services. Congress established a military health system "to create and maintain high morale in the uniformed services by providing an improved and uniform program of medical and dental care for members and certain former members of those services, and for their dependents." Pursuant to congressionally delegated authority, the Department of Defense established the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (CHAMPUS) in 1967 (now known as TRICARE). In 1995, the Department of Defense established TRICARE as a "comprehensive managed health care program for the delivery and financing of health care services in the Military Health System." TRICARE provides health care benefits to active-duty service members, retirees and their families, and other beneficiaries from any of the seven services. TRICARE offers all beneficiaries a range of FDA-approved methods of contraception, including intrauterine devices, diaphragms, prescription contraceptives, and surgical sterilization. Congress' declaration of a national policy of "ensuring the highest possible health status for Indians and urban Indians" also includes the requirement that health plans cover family planning services and supplies. Among other things, Congress authorized the Secretary of HHS, acting through the Indian Health Service (IHS), "to provide health promotion and disease prevention services to Indians ." Congress' definition of "health promotion" includes programs for "reproductive health and family planning." According to the Indian Health Manual, IHS "provides comprehensive family planning services to all eligible American Indian and Alaska Native men and women." This includes, "all available Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved types of contraceptive (mechanical, chemical and natural) methods," with the individual deciding the appropriate choice of method. Coverage of family planning services and supplies is also a requirement of Medicaid-the country's largest public health insurance program covering approximately sixty million low-income people. States participating in Medicaid receive significant federal funding in return for providing specified health coverage to specified groups of people (with a state option to cover additional groups and services). The Medicaid Act requires participating states to cover family planning services and supplies for all categorically needy beneficiaries. The ACA's contraceptive coverage provision builds upon this existing body of federal law. Standards of medical care recognize that a woman's ability to use contraception is critical to her health and well-being. The federal government has long-recognized these standards of medical care by enacting laws and policies that ensure women's access to health insurance benefits that include contraception coverage. III. Federal law seeks to ensure that private health insurance coverage adequately meets women's health care needs by requiring coverage of contraception. In its petition for a Writ of Certiorari, Hobby Lobby Stores., Inc. argued that the federal government can achieve its contraceptive access goals through other "readily available means," highlighting Title X of the Public Health Service Act (Title X). Amici accordingly briefly address the interplay between the ACA provision at issue and Title X. The ACA seeks to increase the quality and affordability of health insurance through a number of mechanisms, including the establishment of a minimum level of "essential health benefits" in health insurance coverage. Among other things, Congress added 2713(a)(4) of the Public Health Service Act to ensure that women receiving coverage through private insurance-a "group health plan" or from "a health insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance coverage"-have a minimum level of coverage of preventive health services necessary to preserve and maintain women's health. Title X, on the other hand, is the nation's only dedicated source of federal funding for safety net family planning services. While Title X health centers can provide care to all patients, federal law requires them to give priority to "persons from low-income families." In addition to being low-income, Title X patients are also disproportionately people of color. In 2012, of the approximately 4.8 million Title X family planning users, thirty one percent self-identified as black or African American, Asian, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, or American Indian or Alaska Native, and twenty eight percent self-identified as Hispanic or Latino. Safety net programs like Title X are not designed to absorb the unmet needs of higher-income, insured individuals. Furthermore, Title X is designed to subsidize a program of care, not pay all of the cost of any service or activity-the Title X statute and regulations contemplate how Title X and third party payers will work together to pay for care, directing Title X-funded agencies to seek payment from such third party payers. Even more, Title X is already underfunded and overburdened. Between the 2010 and 2012 fiscal years, Title X funding decreased by approximately twenty-four million dollars, or 7.4%. This time period also corresponds with the largest decrease in the number of patients served in Title X sites in more than a decade. Title X and similar programs seek to ensure preventive services for primarily low-income and uninsured individuals who rely on publicly funded safety net programs for access to services. Even with the ACA's expansion of health insurance coverage, the U.S. Congressional Budget Office estimates that approximately 30 million nonelderly individuals will remain uninsured in 2016. CONCLUSION Standards of medical care recommend that women have access to contraception as a necessary part of critical preventive health care services. The contraceptive coverage provision at issue here makes this access possible by ensuring that health plans in the individual and small group market adequately cover services that ensure women's health and wellbeing. This Court should find for the Government and uphold the contraceptive coverage provision. 