Amicus Curiae Jeremy C. Doerre is an individual attorney who believes that this case involves issues of exceptional importance to all Americans. Amicus' only interest is in highlighting a point that may have been overlooked in the lower court opinion in case it will be helpful to this Court's consideration. Amicus has no stake in any party or in the outcome of this case. SUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT In Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, this Court held that 26 U.S.C. " 5000A need not be read to do more than impose a tax." In the present case, the Fifth Circuit concluded that "now that the shared responsibility payment amount is set at zero, the provision's saving construction is no longer available." However, the Fifth Circuit's premise (that "the shared responsibility payment amount is set at zero") overlooks that "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years. Similarly, the Fifth Circuit's suggestion that "the provision no longer yields the 'essential feature of any tax' because it does not produce 'at least some revenue for the Government'" overlooks that "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years and is revenue-producing. In this regard, not only did 5000A already produce revenue collected by the IRS for which the calculated amounts have not changed under the amended statute, but additionally 5000A as amended is currently still applicable to produce revenue from delinquent filers. Overall, 5000A's "requirement that certain individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health insurance still may reasonably be characterized as a tax" because "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years and is revenue-producing. Further, " 5000A still need not be read to do more than impose a tax" because analogously to NFIB, "the individual mandate need not be read to declare that failing to purchase health insurance is unlawful" even if "individuals who are subject to the mandate are nonetheless effectively exempt from the penalty" for some tax years because it is zero dollars. ARGUMENT I. 5000A's "requirement that certain individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health insurance still may reasonably be characterized as a tax" because "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years and is revenue-producing. In Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, this Court held that "the Affordable Care Act's requirement that certain individuals pay a financial penalty for not obtaining health insurance may reasonably be characterized as a tax." Subsequently, "in December 2017, Congress" amended 26 U.S.C. 5000A to modify, for some but not all tax years, calculation of "the 'shared responsibility payment' amount-the amount a person must pay for failing to comply with the individual mandate." In particular, Congress left in place the existing framework for calculating non-zero shared responsibility payments for 2014 and 2015, but modified the statute such that the calculated shared responsibility payment for any taxpayer for "taxable years beginning after 2015" will be zero dollars. In the present case, the Fifth Circuit concluded that "now that the shared responsibility payment amount is set at zero, the provision's saving construction is no longer available." A. Amicus urges that the Fifth Circuit's premise (that "the shared responsibility payment amount is set at zero") overlooks that "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years. In amending 26 U.S.C. 5000A, Congress could have chosen to have "the shared responsibility payment amount set at zero" for all taxpayers for all taxable years. Indeed, although the amendments are "effective January 2019," Congress chose to retroactively alter statutory calculation of the shared responsibility payment amount for some prior years, namely "taxable years beginning after 2015." Importantly, however, Congress left in place the pre-existing framework for calculation of the shared responsibility payment amount for some years, namely 2014 and 2015, and 5000A as amended still provides for calculation of non-zero amounts for taxpayers for these years. The statute as amended still provides for calculation of non-zero amounts under both prongs of 26 U.S.C. 5000A(c)(2): the "Flat dollar amount" prong of (c)(2)(A); and the "Percentage of income" prong of (c)(2)(B). Under the "Flat dollar amount" prong, although Congress amended 5000A(c)(3)(A) to indicate that "Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), the applicable dollar amount is $0," subparagraph (B) still provides that "The applicable dollar amount is $95 for 2014 and $325 for 2015." 5000A(c)(3)(B). Similarly, under the "Percentage of income" prong, although Congress amended 5000A(c)(2)(B) to specify a percentage of "Zero percent for taxable years beginning after 2015," the statute as amended still specifies a percentage of "1.0 percent for taxable years beginning in 2014" and a percentage of "2.0 percent for taxable years beginning in 2015." 5000A(c)(2)(B). That is, Congress left the shared responsibility payment at a non-zero amount for some taxable years, specifically years 2014 and 2015. The Fifth Circuit's premise that "the shared responsibility payment amount is set at zero" does not take this into account. B. Similarly, the Fifth Circuit's suggestion that "the provision no longer yields the 'essential feature of any tax' because it does not produce 'at least some revenue for the Government'" does not take into account that "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years and is revenue-producing. 1. As a first matter, the Fifth Circuit's suggestion that 5000A cannot be characterized as a tax "because it does not produce 'at least some revenue for the Government'" overlooks that 5000A already produced revenue collected by the IRS for which the calculated amounts have not changed under the amended statute. Specifically, 5000A already produced revenue for the Government collected by the IRS for tax years 2014 and 2015, and the amendment to reduce the shared responsibility payment to zero for "taxable years beginning after 2015" did not change the calculated amounts of these shared responsibility payments that were paid. Thus, the amendment to reduce the shared responsibility payment to zero for "taxable years beginning after 2015" does not change the fact that revenue has been properly collected under 5000A for tax years 2014 and 2015, or undermine this Court's prior conclusion that such shared responsibility payments "may reasonably be characterized as a tax." 2. Moreover, the Fifth Circuit's suggestion that 5000A cannot be characterized as a tax "because it does not produce 'at least some revenue for the Government'" does not take into account that 5000A as amended is currently still applicable to produce revenue from delinquent filers. Specifically, given that the IRS normally enforces delinquency procedures for up to six years, 26 U.S.C. 5000A as amended is currently still applicable to enable revenue collection in the form of shared responsibility payments from delinquent filers, e.g. for 2015. Just as this Court detailed in NFIB, such shared responsibility payments are to be "paid into the Treasury by 'taxpayers' when they file their tax returns," are "determined by such familiar factors as taxable income, number of dependents, and joint filing status," and are "enforced by the IRS, whichmust assess and collect it in the same manner as taxes." Amicus urges that the continued ability to collect tax revenue, e.g. in the form of delinquent shared responsibility payments for 2015 which are still nonzero under the amended statute, evidences that the shared responsibility payment still "may reasonably be characterized as a tax." Amicus would urge that this continued ability to collect tax revenue under 5000A should be sufficient to allow the shared responsibility payment to "reasonably be characterized as a tax," NFIB, 567 U.S. at 574, irrespective of whether any delinquent taxpayers actually pay their delinquent owed shared responsibility payment amount, as the classification of a particular exaction as a tax should not be dependent on whether an owed amount is actually paid. Moreover, it is a challenger's burden to "establish that no set of circumstances exists under which the Act would be valid." United States v. Salerno, 481 U.S. 739, 745 (1987). Indeed, invalidating 5000A as unconstitutional would eliminate the ability of the IRS to collect revenue in the form of delinquent shared responsibility payments. II. " 5000A still need not be read to do more than impose a tax" because, analogously to NFIB, "the individual mandate need not be read to declare that failing to purchase health insurance is unlawful" even if "individuals who are subject to the mandate are nonetheless effectively exempt from the penalty" for some tax years because it is zero dollars. In NFIB, this Court reasoned that "while the individual mandate clearly aims to induce the purchase of health insurance, it need not be read to declare that failing to do so is unlawful, as neither the Act nor any other law attaches negative legal consequences to not buying health insurance, beyond requiring a payment to the IRS." Accordingly, this Court concluded "that 5000A need not be read to do more than impose a tax." The amendment to 5000A to set the shared responsibility payment to zero for some but not all tax years did not change this reality that "neither the Act nor any other law attaches negative legal consequences to not buying health insurance, beyond requiring a payment to the IRS." However, the Fifth Circuit has suggested that "now that the shared responsibility payment has been zeroed out, the only logical conclusion under NFIB is to read the individual mandate as a command." As noted above, though, the Fifth Circuit overlooked that "the shared responsibility payment amount is not set at zero" for all tax years. Moreover, the Fifth Circuit's reasoning overlooks that this Court in NFIB already found that "the individual mandate need not be read to declare that failing to purchase health insurance is unlawful" even when "individuals who are subject to the mandate are nonetheless exempt from the penalty," e.g. are exempt for some tax years because of "income below a certain threshold. Analogously, "the individual mandate need not be read to declare that failing to purchase health insurance is unlawful" even if "individuals who are subject to the mandate are nonetheless effectively exempt from the penalty" for some tax years because the shared responsibility payment is zero dollars. Accordingly, amended " 5000A still need not be read to do more than impose a tax." CONCLUSION Amicus urges this Court to grant certiorari. 