The American Thoracic Society ("ATS") is an international educational and scientific organization founded in 1905 that represents more than 15,000 health care professionals. ATS works to prevent and fight respiratory disease around the globe through research, education, patient care, and advocacy. ATS's physicians are actively engaged in the COVID-19 crisis response. ATS publishes three peer-reviewed scientific journals that disseminate groundbreaking research, including studies on the relationship between access to healthcare and healthcare outcomes. ATS supports Petitioners, the State of California et al., because health coverage expansion under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ("ACA" or "Act") is vital for improving healthcare outcomes and reducing the cost of treating Americans who suffer from respiratory diseases. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT Amicus curiae submits this brief to assist the Court in understanding the extraordinary importance of the ACA, Pub. L. No. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119, to the physical and economic health of the American people. Amidst the COVID-19 pandemic the ACA is more essential than ever. The ACA was designed "to increase the number of Americans covered by health insurance and decrease the cost of health care." Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 567 U.S. 519, 538-39 (2012) ("NFIB"). "The Act's 10 titles stretch over 900 pages and contain hundreds of provisions." Id. Respondents here question the validity of a single provision known as the "individual mandate," 26 U.S.C. 5000A. The District Court for the Northern District of Texas erroneously concluded that this provision could not be severed from the hundreds of other provisions in the ACA, such as those that expand Medicaid coverage, see generally NFIB, 567 U.S. at 541-542, or those that establish government-run health insurance exchanges, King v. Burwell, 135 S. Ct. 2480, 2485, 2487 (2015). After finding the individual mandate unconstitutional and inseverable from the remaining provisions, the District Court invalidated the entire ACA. Both the Fifth Circuit and the District Court ignored the reality of Congress' actions and the Act's role in strengthening the American health system at a critical moment. Respondents now ask this Court to uphold the District Court's decision and toss out the baby with the bathwater. The individual mandate may be severed from the ACA. When Congress passed the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in 2017, it neutralized the individual mandate without modifying any of the Act's other provisions. See Pub. L. No. 115-97, 11098, 131 Stat. 2054, 2092 (2017). In making this change, Congress determined that the ACA can function without a mechanism to enforce the mandate. This light revisionary touch left the ACA's substantial policy benefits intact. And for good reason. The ACA has benefitted millions of Americans in the past ten years. In particular, the Medicaid expansion and health exchanges have significantly expanded health coverage, improved health outcomes, and decreased medical expenses. These benefits have accrued particularly to low-income Americans and those suffering from chronic health conditions. They have also prepared the health system to respond to the COVID-19 crisis more effectively. Regardless of the Court's determination concerning the constitutionality of the individual mandate, its decision should preserve the Act's other provisions and their associated health benefits to the American people. ARGUMENT I. The COVID-19 Pandemic Would Be Much Worse Without the ACA. The COVID-19 crisis fundamentally threatens the physical and economic health of the American people. But the ACA's reforms have improved the health system's capacity to respond to and recover from this public health crisis. Invalidating the ACA now would "counteract efforts to contain the virus, improve public health, and stabilize the economy." Several elements of the ACA have improved the nation's ability to respond to COVID-19. First, the Act provides means for newly-unemployed persons to obtain health coverage and receive essential care. More than 22 million Americans have filed for unemployment aid since President Trump declared the COVID-19 pandemic a national emergency. Millions more will lose their jobs in the coming weeks. Many of these newly-unemployed Americans and their dependents will lose their employer-provided health insurance. Without insurance, individuals and families become increasingly vulnerable to the repercussions of COVID-19. In particular, lack of coverage will require uninsured Covid-19 patients to bear costs of treatment; and one in seven uninsured adults have reported that they would avoid seeking health care if they had symptoms of Covid-19 because of the high cost of treatment. But treatment is critical to limiting the effects of the virus. Individuals with health insurance coverage and access to care are more likely to receive necessary testing and treatment. Therefore, "health insurance coverage and access to care is particularly important in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic." Additionally, people recovering from the virus without health coverage may be unable to afford necessary longterm rehabilitation once they are discharged from the hospital. Hospital systems would also face an increased burden of unreimbursed care. Lack of coverage, therefore, threatens prevention and recovery efforts and undermines hospital systems. The ACA mitigates these potential risks by providing two alternative methods to access health coverage-expanded Medicaid and the health exchanges. Both allow individuals to gain coverage regardless of their employment status. Medicaid, particularly in expansion states, will likely "act as an automatic fiscal stabilizer, supporting unemployed workers' and low-income families' access to health care." In addition to increasing access to care, expanded Medicaid also positions states to face the COVID-19 response more effectively. Medicaid expansion states are expected to receive nearly 50% more federal Medicaid funding per state resident than non-expansion states. In short, without the ACA, over 20 million Americans would be left uninsured and possibly unable to afford COVID-19-related care, and states would have fewer resources to respond to the pandemic. The ACA provides a second critical benefit in the COVID-19 crisis by directly funding Community Health Centers ("CHC"). Expanded Medicaid access and CHC funding create an essential safety net for vulnerable populations. CHCs provide care for nearly 29 million Americans who live in medically underserved communities-communities that are particularly exposed in the COVID-19 crisis. COVID-19 fatality rates are disproportionately high among racial minorities and low-income communities. Without the ACA's funding, CHCs would have fewer resources to provide care to these vulnerable populations. Striking down the entire ACA would leave these communities more susceptible to the virus, putting the entire American population at risk. The COVID-19 crisis has created unprecedented challenges. The ACA provides access to care, shrinks existing gaps in economic and health care safety nets, and provides resources to support response efforts. Reversing the ACA now would deprive the health system of important tools to respond to the crisis and protect vulnerable Americans at a time of extreme strain. II. Health Coverage Consistently Improves Healthcare Outcomes, as Illustrated by Evidence Related to Respiratory Diseases. The causal relationship between health coverage and health outcomes was well-established at the time of the ACA's passage. Amicus ATS can confirm the validity of that general relationship with regard to the particular diseases on which ATS's physicians and researchers focus their efforts. For the tens of millions of Americans who suffer from lung diseases like asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lung cancer, pneumonia, influenza, and cystic fibrosis, from sleep disorders like sleep apnea, or who require critical care to treat life threatening illness or injury, health coverage often substantially determines quality of life and sometimes means the difference between life and death. In fact, studies show that Medicaid expansion and health insurance exchanges have increased access to care and improved health outcomes in the ten years since Congress passed the ACA. Millions of Americans now enjoy more accessible and higher quality care due to the ACA. Adults who gained insurance through the Act are 41% more likely to have a usual source of health care, such as a primary care provider. In particular, Medicaid expansion resulted in a higher proportion of low- and moderate-income adults having a usual source of care, and a corresponding decrease in reliance on hospital emergency departments for health care. Gaining access to regular care is generally associated with health improvements. Medicaid expansion reduced mortality by 39-64% for new Medicaid enrollees. Newly-insured adults are 23% more likely to be in "excellent health." While gaining access to care alone can improve health outcomes, some studies have concluded that Medicaid expansion also improved the quality of care Medicaid patients receive. In addition to these general health improvements, the Act creates valuable benefits for people with chronic respiratory conditions. Medicaid expansion is associated with improvements in chronic care management including more checkups, improved adherence to medications, higher rates of regular care for chronic disease, and improved self-reported health. Prescription drug use increased drastically among people with a chronic condition who became insured due to the ACA. In particular, people with asthma or COPD who gained Medicaid coverage filled 67% more prescriptions after the Act took effect. Because people with chronic respiratory conditions often require prescription treatments, increased access to medication helps them manage their condition more effectively. Plentiful data illustrate that the ACA has improved access to health care and, therefore, health outcomes. These improvements benefit individuals suffering from chronic respiratory illnesses, and Americans generally. These benefits would disappear if this Court invalidates the entire ACA. A. Asthma Asthma is "a chronic lung disease that inflames and narrows the airways" thereby making breathing difficult; it affects 25 million Americans. It generally cannot be cured, but treatment can help those who suffer from it to manage their symptoms. Predictably, there exist significant outcome disparities based on coverage status, both for adults and for children-a reality that was well-known long before the passage of the ACA. Parents of asthmatic children who lack health coverage must often delay seeking necessary care. Thus, it is not surprising that gaining health coverage has been shown to significantly improve health outcomes for asthmatic children and adults. A 2006 study of new enrollees in New York's State Children's Health Insurance Program ("SCHIP") found that children with coverage had fewer asthma attacks and medical visits and half the number of hospitalizations. Over the ACA's ten-year history, mortality in young adults resulting from diseases, including asthma, has decreased by 6.1%. Likewise, an analysis of records at fifty-seven hospitals found that uninsured adults with acute asthma received poorer quality outpatient care for their asthma prior to presentation at an emergency department, and presented with more severe asthma exacerbations. Data show that by improving access to a source of usual care, the ACA has decreased reliance on the emergency department for health care. Lower rates of preventable hospital admissions for asthmatics in Massachusetts (home of the state-level blueprint for the ACA), confirm this connection. B. Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease ("COPD") refers to chronic bronchitis and emphysema, incurable diseases that make it difficult to exhale all the air from one's lungs, and that cause persistent coughing, shortness of breath, and sputum. COPD sufferers are especially susceptible to colds and influenza. Standard COPD treatment regimens involve inhaling one or more vaporized medications; for patients with low blood-oxygen levels, oxygen supplementation is the only treatment associated with improved survival. COPD exacerbations-episodes of acute difficulty breathing and moderate to severe fatigue-are dangerous, and their treatment often requires hospitalization. Health coverage matters enormously for COPD patients. In a 2005-2006 national survey of more than 4,000 adults diagnosed with COPD, 12% reported having no health coverage and 30% reported having insufficient medication coverage. Those without coverage used standard health services significantly less-a third reported that their lack of coverage had led them to not fill a prescription for their COPD and 31% reported having gone to the emergency department because of lack of coverage. In addition, of those with insufficient coverage, 34% reported "stretching out" a prescription (i.e., reducing individual doses) and 7% reported sharing another person's medication. The ACA substantially improved access to prescription medication for people suffering from asthma and COPD. Given how clearly coverage affects patients' approaches to their own treatment, it is notable that treating to prevent exacerbations can significantly reduce the health and economic burdens of COPD. C. Sleep Disorders More than 18 million Americans suffer from sleep apnea, a disorder characterized by interruptions in breathing during sleep, resulting in chronic daytime fatigue. Without treatment, sleep apnea can increase the risk of a variety of medical problems, including heart failure, stroke, and diabetes; untreated sleep apnea also places others at risk, as the resulting fatigue significantly increases the probability of motor vehicle crashes. Access to health coverage is especially important for patients with sleep apnea due to the complexity of treatment, which typically involves breathing devices, sleep studies, therapy, regular medical consultation, or surgery. However, research predating the ACA indicates that patients without health coverage were far less likely than patients with health coverage to follow up on treatment. D. Lung Cancer A 2010 ATS literature review concluded that uninsured patients diagnosed with lung cancer are more likely to die from the disease and that access to screening and care explains the disparity. This makes perfect sense, given the crucial importance of lung cancer screening and preventive care to outcomes. Indeed, this sort of relationship informed the ACA's requirement for private insurers to cover all "A" and "B" grade preventative services, which now include CT lung cancer screening. Evidence indicates that early-stage cancer diagnoses have increased since the ACA was enacted, which is associated with improved patient outcomes. III. The ACA Provides Health Coverage to Millions of Americans and Contributes to Improved Economic Health. Approximately 20 million Americans obtained health coverage under the ACA. Since Congress passed the ACA, the percentage of Americans without health coverage has fallen markedly, particularly among low- and middle-income individuals. During the 2018 enrollment period, over 10 million Americans selected a health coverage plan through an exchange. Approximately 87% of people enrolled in exchange plans received premium subsidies. Additionally, over 12 million Americans have newly enrolled in Medicaid. Medicaid expansion and premium subsidies on the health insurance exchanges have resulted in reduced out-of-pocket medical spending, particularly for low-income people. On average, newly-covered adults saved $337 per year in out-of-pocket medical expenses. In California, these savings contributed to improved financial health, a reduction in payday loans, and reduced loan debt. People with chronic conditions, in particular, are spending less to manage their condition. For instance, people with asthma or COPD who gained Medicaid coverage decreased their out-of-pocket spending on prescription drugs by 62%. These data show that the ACA has improved the physical and economic health of millions of Americans. Should this Court strike down the ACA, over 20 million Americans will lose health coverage, lose access to essential care and medications, and face increased health care costs as the COVID-19 crisis continues. Undermining the exchange marketplace and Medicaid expansion would particularly harm vulnerable populations of low-income people and those suffering from chronic conditions. These Americans already struggle to afford housing, food, and medical expenses, and now face an increasingly insecure future due to the COVID-19 pandemic. "An ultimate ruling by the Court that the ACA is unconstitutional in its entirety would substantially disrupt a health system that has spent 10 years adapting to the ACA and could threaten the insurance status of tens of millions of Americans." Such a result would be contrary to the best interest of the American people. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, Amicus American Thoracic Society urges this Court to protect the health of millions of Americans by preserving the ACA.