Amici are federally recognized Tribal Nations, local and regional tribal organizations, and national tribal organizations as listed in Appendix A to this brief. In total, 471 Tribal Nations are represented by amici curiae, either directly or indirectly through membership in an amici tribal organization. Individually or collectively, amici all either operate health care facilities and provide direct health care services to their citizens and other beneficiaries, or they advocate on health issues affecting American Indian and Alaska Native people, or both. For the reasons stated below, they will be directly and uniquely affected by the disposition of this case. When Congress enacted the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119 (2010) ("ACA" or "Act"), it enacted along with it several provisions relating specifically to the Indian health system. In particular, Section 10221 amended and modernized the Indian Health Care Improvement Act (IHCIA), 25 U.S.C. 1601-1680v, a stand-alone law first enacted in 1976 that provides the statutory framework for health care programs and services to American Indian and Alaska Native beneficiaries. Congress also enacted other Indian-specific provisions in the ACA to carry out the federal trust responsibility and further improve the status of Indian health through, inter alia, increasing access to federal funding and other resources to support the Indian health system. As used in this brief, the term "Indian" or "Indians" includes American Indians and Alaska Natives, and the term "Indian health system" refers collectively to Indian Health Service (IHS), tribally operated, and urban Indian health programs serving eligible American Indian and Alaska Native beneficiaries. These Indian provisions of the ACA have nothing to do with health insurance or the individual mandate deemed unconstitutional by the District Court. Nevertheless, because the District Court held the individual mandate inseverable from the entire Act, its sweeping decision extended to them. The Fifth Circuit vacated the District Court's severability ruling, but agreed that the individual mandate is unconstitutional. If this Court likewise agrees, the amici have a vital and urgent interest in ensuring that a proper severability analysis is applied to sustain the separate and severable Indian-specific provisions. Amici and the tribal health care programs they operate depend on a legal architecture that includes the IHCIA as a critical cornerstone. Many amici, for example, have entered into agreements with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Indian Health Service (IHS) under the authority of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (ISDEAA), 25 U.S.C. 5301-5399, to provide health care services directly to Indian people in their geographic areas. In carrying out their ISDEAA agreements, amici directly implement various provisions of the IHCIA and rely on others (as well as other Indian-specific provisions of the ACA) for crucial legal rights and protections. Over the past decade, these provisions have allowed amici and the Indian health system as a whole to modernize in important ways and to ensure that health care services are delivered to Indian people in the most effective possible manner. Striking them down would be misguided and enormously disruptive-especially now, as Indian Country and the rest of the United States grapple with the deadly coronavirus pandemic. SUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT Should this Court find that the ACA's individual mandate is unconstitutional, it should sever that provision from the remainder of the Act, in particular Section 10221 (the IHCIA amendments) and other Indian-specific provisions enacted by Congress to carry out the federal trust responsibility. These Indian-specific provisions of the ACA have a separate genesis and purpose from the remainder of the Act, and are neither related to nor dependent on the individual mandate specifically or health insurance reform more generally. When a court finds a portion of a statute unconstitutional, surviving provisions that remain "fully operative as a law" should be left intact unless it is "evident" that Congress would have preferred otherwise. See Murphy v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Ass'n, 138 S. Ct. 1461, 1490, 1482 (2018) (internal citations omitted). Applying this standard, Section 10221 and other Indian-specific provisions of the ACA must be preserved. Section 10221 represents only a single page of the ACA, but it incorporates by reference S. 1790, the Indian Health Care Improvement Reauthorization and Extension Act of 2009, 111th Cong. (2009), a 274-page bill that amended and updated the IHCIA. The IHCIA was first enacted as a standalone law in 1976, and although the 2010 amendments were ultimately enacted by way of the ACA, they have a separate legislative history from the remainder of the Act. More importantly, along with other Indian-specific provisions of the ACA, the IHCIA serves an entirely separate legislative purpose: It provides the foundation for an independent, freestanding Indian health care system that does not depend, in any measure, on operation of the ACA's individual mandate. These provisions include important programmatic authorities for the IHS and Tribal Nations carrying out health care programs and services under the ISDEAA, and expand access to resources to remedy historical underfunding and neglect of the system. If a provision of a federal statute is unconstitutional but potentially severable, the "touchstone for any decision about remedy is legislative intent." Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 567 U.S. 519, 586 (2012) (quoting Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of N. New Eng., 546 U.S. 320, 330 (2006)). In enacting S. 1790 by way of the ACA, Congress expressly affirmed a longstanding federal Indian health care policy "in fulfillment of the federal government's special trust responsibilities and legal obligations to Indians." S. 1790, 111th Cong. 103 (2009), as enacted by the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Pub. L. No. 111-148, 10221(a), 124 Stat. 935 (2010). Congress has continued to pursue that policy in subsequent legislation that builds on the IHCIA's programmatic provisions, including in its recent emergency response to the coronavirus pandemic. Striking down the IHCIA amendments and other Indian-specific provisions on the ground that a wholly unrelated private insurance coverage mandate is constitutionally invalid would disregard the trust responsibilities espoused by Congress and subvert federal Indian health care policy, without any indication that Congress had anticipated-let alone intended- such a result. Because the federal courts "cannot 'use their remedial powers to circumvent the intent of the legislature,'" the IHCIA amendments and other Indian-specific provisions of the ACA must be preserved. Ayotte, 546 U.S. at 330 (2006) (quoting Califano v. Westcott, 443 U.S. 76, 94 (1979) (Powell, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part)). ARGUMENT Once a portion of a statute is found unconstitutional, the purpose of the severability rule is to separate and save other portions of the legislation that are practically and legally independent and therefore valid. In Free Enterprise Fund v. Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, this Court stated: "Because the unconstitutionality of a part of an Act does not necessarily defeat or affect the validity of its remaining provisions, the normal rule is that partial, rather than facial, invalidation is the required course." 561 U.S. 477, 508 (2010) (internal citations omitted); see also Regan v. Time, Inc., 468 U.S. 641, 652 (1984) ("A court should refrain from invalidating more of the statute than is necessary."). In conducting a severability analysis, a court must "ask whether the law remains 'fully operative' without the invalid provisions." Murphy, 138 S. Ct. at 1482 (citing Free Enter. Fund, 561 U.S. at 509). If so, the invalid provision is "presumed severable," Immigration & Naturalization Serv. v. Chadha, 462 U.S. 919, 934 (1983), and what remains after severance should be sustained unless it is "evident" that Congress would have preferred the rest of the statute (or particular sections) to be invalidated along with the unconstitutional provision. Free Enter. Fund, 561 U.S. at 508-09; Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus., 567 U.S. at 587 ("The question here is whether Congress would have wanted the rest of the Act to stand, had it known that States would have a genuine choice whether to participate in the new Medicaid expansion pursuant to the Court's ruling. Unless it is 'evident' that the answer is no, we must leave the rest of the Act intact."). I. The IHCIA Amendments and other Indian-specific provisions of the ACA are fully operative, independent provisions of law that are not related to or dependent on the individual mandate. A. The Indian Health Care Improvement Act The IHCIA is a primary and critical component of the statutory framework for the delivery of health care services to Indian people by the United States. Along with the Transfer Act of 1954, 42 U.S.C. 2001, and the Snyder Act, 25 U.S.C. 13, the IHCIA provides key legislative authority for the health care programs and facilities administered by the IHS, the agency housed within the Department of Health and Human Services that is responsible for providing health services to American Indians and Alaska Natives. The Indian health care system is unique and exists largely apart from the mainstream health care delivery system in the United States. Services to eligible beneficiaries are provided directly at IHS and tribal hospitals and clinics and urban Indian clinics, supplemented by the purchase of health services from other providers where necessary. Funding to support those services is provided through annual appropriations from Congress. While the IHS and tribal health programs are authorized to collect reimbursements from Medicare, Medicaid, and private insurance when they serve Indian patients with such coverage, enrollment in an insurance plan is not a prerequisite for receiving direct services through Indian health care providers. Eligibility for IHCIA-authorized programs is defined in federal regulations, 42 C.F.R. 136.12, and eligible American Indian and Alaska Native patients receive care at no cost to them even when they lack any form of health insurance coverage. See 25 U.S.C. 1680r(b). In the past, Congress has expressly prohibited the IHS from charging for services, e.g., Pub. L. No. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321 (1996), and that is still IHS policy today. Although tribal health programs are permitted to charge beneficiaries for services, 25 U.S.C. 1680r(a), they almost never do. The legislative history of the IHCIA, like its substantive purpose, is distinct from the remainder of the ACA. As originally enacted in 1976, the appropriations authority in the IHCIA required periodic reauthorization. It has been reauthorized and amended a number of times, with extensive substantive amendments enacted in 1992 to strengthen its programmatic provisions. Indian Health Amendments of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-573, 106 Stat. 4526. In 1999, a new effort to reauthorize the expired provisions and make much needed improvements to the IHCIA began. In that year and throughout the ensuing decade, Congress continued to appropriate funds for IHCIA programs through annual appropriations under other authority, while considering legislation to update the law's provisions and make the expired appropriations authority permanent. On October 15, 2009, Senator Byron Dorgan and 15 co-sponsors introduced S. 1790, an independent bill to amend and reauthorize the IHCIA. 155 Cong. Rec. 24,957 (2009). S. 1790 contained over 270 pages of amendments that modernized the IHCIA and made all of its provisions permanent federal law without an expiration date. The amendments further enhanced authorities to recruit and retain health care professionals to overcome high vacancy rates; expanded programs to address diseases such as diabetes that are at alarmingly high levels in Indian Country; augmented the ability of tribal epidemiology centers to devise strategies to address local health needs; provided more equitable and innovative procedures for construction of health care and sanitation facilities; expanded opportunities for third-party collections in order to maximize all revenue sources; established comprehensive behavioral health initiatives, with a particular focus on the Indian youth suicide crisis; and expressly authorized operation of modern methods of health care delivery such as long-term care and home- and community-based care, among other changes. Following its introduction, S. 1790 was referred to the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, the panel with primary jurisdiction over Indian health. It was then reported favorably out of that Committee. In the meantime, H.R. 3590-which would become the Senate's health care reform legislation and, eventually, the ACA-evolved as the product of the Majority Leader's reconciliation of health care reform measures considered and approved by the Senate Finance Committee and the Health, Education, Labor and Pensions (HELP) Committee. S. 1790 was added to H.R. 3590 later, as part of a Manager's package of amendments adopted by the Senate on December 22, 2009- two days before H.R. 3590 passed the Senate. H.R. 3590 was passed by the Senate on December 24, 2009 and adopted by the House of Representatives on March 21, 2010. It was signed into law by the President on March 23, 2010 as Pub. L. No. 111-148. The relevant amendment added a new Part III to Title X of the ACA, titled "Indian Health Care Improvement." That Part consisted solely of Section 10221, a single page of legislation incorporating by reference and enacting into law S. 1790, and making four alterations to the text of that measure. See Appendix B. When the President signed H.R. 3590 into law on March 23, 2010, S. 1790 (the IHCIA amendments) became law along with it. However, as the Fifth Circuit majority recognized, "the ACA's framework of economic regulations and incentives spans over 900 pages of legislative text and is divided into ten titles. Most of the provisions directly regulating health insurance, including the one challenged in this case, are found in Titles I and II," and "the other titles generally address" other topics, including "improving health care for Native Americans (Title X)." (footnotes omitted). Texas v. United States, 945 F.3d 355, 396 (5th Cir. 2019). Judge King's dissenting opinion similarly noted that "the ACA contains countless other provisions that are unrelated to the private insurance market-and many that are only tangentially related to health insurance at all," including "Title III of Part X sic, which reauthorizes and amends the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, a decades-old statute creating and maintaining the infrastructure for tribal healthcare services." Id. at 418 (King, J., dissenting). Thus, although S. 1790 was included in Title X of the massive and sprawling ACA, like many other discrete provisions of the law it is not tied to the individual mandate or other insurance market reform measures concentrated in Titles I and II of that Act. B. Other Indian-specific Provisions of the ACA The ACA contains several other beneficial Indian provisions that, like the IHCIA amendments, were added to the Senate's health care reform bill as a matter of legislative convenience and efficiency-not because they were part of or related to the insurance market reforms that include the individual mandate. Instead, like the IHCIA amendments, these provisions were designed to assist in implementation of the federal trust responsibility to provide health care services to American Indian and Alaska Native people by strengthening the Indian health system. The need for these provisions was apparent at the time the ACA was enacted. Despite improvement in some health status measures over prior decades, Indian health disparities continued to invite comparisons with third-world countries. When introducing S. 1790 in the fall of 2009, Senator Dorgan cited but a few examples: "Native Americans die of tuberculosis at a rate 600 percent higher than the general population, suicide rates are nearly double, alcoholism rates are 510 percent higher, and diabetes rates are 189 percent higher than the general population." 155 Cong. Rec. 24,957 (2009) (statement of Sen. Dorgan). Much of this ongoing crisis was attributable to a chronic lack of funding for Indian health programs: Senator Dorgan observed in 2009 that the health care system for Native Americans is "only funded at about half of its need." Id. Even now, funding for the Indian health system remains "inequitable and unequal," as the United States Commission on Civil Rights detailed in a recent report. Although no provision of the IHCIA or the ACA directly appropriates funding for the Indian health system, several individual provisions included in the final law were designed, among other things, to increase that system's access to additional federal and other third-party resources to supplement annual appropriations. The IHCIA authorizes program funding, but does not require any expenditure, and is not "paid for" by any other provision of the ACA. These provisions include the following: Section 2901 contains a critically important provision designed to protect scarce IHS resources. It affirms that the Indian health system is the payer of last resort, which means that all other forms of payment, including Medicare, Medicaid, the Department of Veterans Affairs, and private insurance must pay before the IHS will pay for a service to an eligible beneficiary. This provision was included in the health care reform bill reported by the Finance Committee, and included in H.R. 3590 as approved by the Senate. S. Rep. No. 111-89, at 105 (2009). Section 2902 amends Section 1880 of the Social Security Act, the statutory provision that authorizes IHS and tribally operated hospitals and clinics to receive reimbursements from Medicare. Section 2902 removed the "sunset" date for collection of reimbursements for Medicare Part B services that had been authorized by the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, Pub. L. No. 108-173, 117 Stat. 2066. This provision was included in the health care reform bill reported by the Finance Committee, and included in H.R. 3590 as approved by the Senate. Id. at 106. Section 3314 corrects a problem encountered by IHS, tribal, and urban Indian organization pharmacies that provide Medicare Part D prescription drugs to their Indian patients without charge, in order to improve access to catastrophic coverage. Since the value of such drugs was not counted as out-of-pocket costs of the patient, the Indian patient was not able to qualify for the catastrophic coverage level under Part D. The Section 3314 amendment removed this barrier by directing that effective January 1, 2011, the cost of drugs borne or paid by an Indian pharmacy are to be considered out-of-pocket costs of the patient. It was added to the Finance Committee bill during markup, and was retained in the reconciled bill, H.R. 3590, as approved by the Senate. Id. at 260. Section 9021 amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from an individual tribal member's gross income the value of health benefits, care or coverage provided by the IHS or by a Tribal Nation or tribal organization to its members. This provision overrides the determination by the Internal Revenue Service that the value of health benefits provided by a Tribal Nation for its citizens constitutes taxable income to the citizen even when a Tribal Nation stepped in to provide such coverage to compensate for insufficient funding from the IHS. It was added to the Finance Committee's health care reform bill that was reported to the Senate and was retained in the reconciled bill, H.R. 3590, approved by the Senate. Id. at 356. As with the IHCIA itself, none of these other Indian-specific provisions is related to or dependent upon the individual mandate. They are fully operative as stand-alone law, and therefore they must be preserved unless it is "evident" that Congress would not have enacted them without the individual mandate. Chadha, 462 U.S. at 934; Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus., 567 U.S. at 586-87. II. Congress enacted the Indian-specific provisions of the ACA to fulfill its unique trust obligations to Indians, and the Indian-specific provisions continue to serve that goal. The IHCIA was crafted in response to the deplorable health status of Indian people and the shameful condition of health and sanitation facilities on and around Indian reservations. See H.R. Rep. No. 94-1026, pt. 1, at 1-17 (1976), reprinted in 1976 U.S.C.C.A.N. 2652- 57. It is one of many distinct and specialized federal laws designed by Congress to address the unique needs of tribal communities. These laws carry out treaty obligations assumed by the United States in exchange for vast cessions of land and resources by Tribal Nations, and implement the federal trust responsibility to Indians that evolved from those and other historical dealings. See generally COHEN'S HANDBOOK OF FEDERAL INDIAN LAW 22.013, at 1384 (Nell Jessup Newton ed., 2012) ("Obligation to Provide Services"). Articulated in treaties, judicial decisions, laws, regulations and policies over more than two centuries, the federal trust responsibility has been repeatedly recognized by all branches of the federal government. In enacting the IHCIA in 1976, Congress expressed a firm commitment to carry out the trust responsibility to Indian people in its Declaration of Policy: The Congress hereby declares that it is the policy of this Nation, in fulfillment of its special responsibilities and legal obligation to the American Indian people, to meet the national goal of providing the highest possible health status to Indians and to provide existing Indian health services with all resources necessary to effect that policy. Indian Health Care Improvement Act, Pub. L. No. 94- 437, Sec. 3, 90 Stat. 1401 (1976). Congress repeated this language and took it a step further in the text of the 2010 amendments to the IHCIA, declaring that "it is the policy of this Nation, in fulfillment of its special trust responsibilities and legal obligations to Indians" to, among other things, "ensure the highest possible health status for Indians and urban Indians and to provide all resources necessary to effect that policy." Pub. L. No. 111-148, 10221(a), 124 Stat. 935 (2010) (codified at 25 U.S.C. 1602). When introducing S. 1790 in 2009, Senator Dorgan declared: "We face a bona fide crisis in health care in our Native American communities, and this bill is a first step toward fulfilling our treaty obligations and trust responsibility to provide quality health care in Indian Country." 155 Cong. Rec. 24,957 (2009) (statement of Sen. Dorgan). A severability analysis requires the courts to "seek to determine what Congress would have intended in light of the Court's constitutional holding." Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus., 567 U.S. at 586 (quoting United States v. Booker, 543 U.S. 220, 246 (2005)). It would be wrong to conclude that Congress-without ever saying so- intended the fulfillment of its "special trust responsibilities and legal obligations to Indians" to be contingent on otherwise unrelated private insurance market reforms. It is self-evident from Congress's declaration of purpose in enacting the IHCIA amendments that the 111th Congress, sitting in 2010, would have intended to preserve those and other Indian-specific provisions regardless of the individual mandate. Nothing in the text or the legislative history of the ACA suggests otherwise. Nor is there anything in the text or legislative history of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, Pub. L. 115-97, 131 Stat. 2054 (TCJA), to indicate that the 115th Congress intended to abandon its federal trust commitments to Indians when it voted to eliminate the individual mandate tax penalty without altering any other provision of the Act. The Conference Report accompanying the TCJA correctly notes that Indians, among other groups, were never subject to the individual mandate tax penalty to begin with. H.R. Rep. No. 115-466, at 324 (2017); 26 U.S.C. 5000A(e)(3) (exempting members of Indian tribes). Congress's decision to reduce the amount of that penalty to $0, therefore, would have had no effect on them or on the operation of the distinct, Indian-specific provisions of the ACA. There is no other evidence in the legislative record that Congress in 2017 even considered the possibility that eliminating the individual mandate tax penalty could have any impact on the IHCIA amendments or other Indian-specific provisions, let alone that Congress intended to unravel them. Although the individual mandate is now effectively gone, Congress has consistently demonstrated its intent to keep the Indian health system and the legal architecture that supports it fully intact. That intent is reflected in continued annual appropriations for IHCIA and related Indian health programs, see, e.g., Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020, Pub. L. No. 116-94, 133 Stat. 2534, 2730-34 (2019), and in other legislation addressing public health. For example, less than a year after passing the TCJA, the very same Congress passed measures to increase access to supplemental funding for Tribal Nations and tribal health programs to respond to the national opioid epidemic in American Indian and Alaska Native communities. Likewise, in the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act enacted this past March 27, Pub. L. No. 116-136, tit. VII, 134 Stat. 281, 550-51 (2020), the current Congress authorized an appropriation of over $1 billion in additional resources to "prevent, prepare for, and respond to" coronavirus through the IHS and tribal health programs. Notably, the CARES Act appropriation specifically identifies several IHCIA-authorized programs that are to be included in the utilization of the emergency funds. The statutory language states, in relevant part: For an additional amount for "Indian Health Services", $1,032,000,000, to remain available until September 30, 2021, to prevent, prepare for, and respond to coronavirus, domestically or internationally, including for public health support, electronic health record modernization, telehealth and other information technology upgrades, Purchased/Referred Care, Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, Urban Indian Organizations, Tribal Epidemiology Centers, Community Health Representatives, and other activities to protect the safety of patients and staff . Pub. L. No. 116-136, tit. VII, 134 Stat. 281, 550-51 (2020). It also states that "of amounts provided under this heading in this Act, not less than $450,000,000 shall be distributed through IHS directly operated programs and to tribes and tribal organizations under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act and through contracts or grants with urban Indian organizations under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act." Id. Both the opioid crisis and the coronavirus pandemic have disproportionately ravaged American Indian and Alaska Native populations, which suffer high rates of pre-existing conditions and, in some cases, lack reliable access to basic necessities like clean water and adequate shelter. The IHCIA and related Indian health provisions, including those enacted as part of the ACA, are intended precisely to increase the capacity of the Indian health system to respond to and address these problems-whether in the context of ordinary primary and preventive care or in the case of public health emergencies. Given that the "touchstone for any decision about remedy is legislative intent," Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus., 567 U.S. at 586 (quoting Ayotte, 546 U.S. at 330), those provisions that can continue to carry out Congress's goal of implementing the federal trust responsibility to Indians should be left to do so, regardless of the impact of the constitutional ruling on separate legislative goals that may be reflected in other provisions of the ACA. The Indian-specific provisions still "function in a manner consistent with the intent of Congress," Alaska Airlines, Inc. v. Brock, 480 U.S. 678, 685 (1987), and they are needed now more than ever. It would be extraordinarily disruptive to the Indian health system, and thus to important congressional policy objectives, to upend those provisions simply because they were enacted alongside the ACA's individual mandate. CONCLUSION If this Court deems the ACA's individual mandate unconstitutional, it should sever that provision from, at a minimum, Section 10221 and other Indian-specific provisions enacted by Congress to carry out the federal trust responsibility to Indians. These Indian-specific provisions are not related to or dependent on the individual mandate specifically or health insurance reform more generally, and they implement a separate and distinct legislative purpose. A proper severability analysis thus compels that they remain intact. 