Amici curiae are nineteen leading national disability rights organizations: the American Association of People with Disabilities, American Civil Liberties Union, The Arc of the United States, Association of University Centers on Disabilities, Autistic Self Advocacy Network, Autism Society of America, Center for Public Representation, Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, Disability Rights Legal Center, Judge David L. Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, Little Lobbyists, Mental Health America, National Association of Councils on Developmental Disabilities, National Association of the Deaf, National Council on Independent Living, National Disability Rights Network, National Down Syndrome Congress, National Federation of the Blind, and Paralyzed Veterans of America. Together, amici are national organizations that are made up of, represent, and advocate for the rights of Americans with disabilities. The Affordable Care Act is of critical importance to amici's membership and constituents because it provides access to needed health care coverage and services that enable people with disabilities to live healthy and independent lives. Prior to its passage, millions of people with disabilities were unable to access these services. Amici submit this brief to assist the Court in understanding Congress's intent that the ACA protect people with disabilities. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT Amici support the arguments of petitioners that the individual and state plaintiffs lack standing, and that reducing to zero the tax assessment for failing to obtain minimum coverage does not invalidate that provision. This brief, however, addresses the third issue in the case: whether the minimum-coverage provision is severable from the ACA if the Court deems that provision unconstitutional. In assessing whether Congress would have wanted to sever the minimum-coverage provision in order to save the remainder of the ACA, it is important to consider the substantial benefits that Congress intentionally extended to people with disabilities in enacting the ACA. The breadth of these benefits, and their critical importance to the lives of millions of people with disabilities, should weigh heavily in favor of finding the minimum-coverage provision severable, thereby preserving the substantial benefits Congress extended. Congress intentionally sought to protect people with disabilities in the ACA, and would not have wanted to scrap all of these benefits simply because the minimum-coverage provision is deemed invalid. The ACA has been a life-saver for Americans who live with disabilities. It has provided long-denied access to crucial medical insurance and health care to millions of such Americans. It has allowed people with disabilities to obtain health care and supports that can be critically important to their health, independence, and productivity. In this brief, amici bring to the Court's attention the unquestioned and significant, indeed sometimes life-changing, benefits that the ACA has brought to the many Americans represented by amici, and the devastating effect a declaration that the ACA as a whole is unconstitutional would have. Even before the current pandemic, the ACA provided crucial additional health care support to people with disabilities. It greatly increased their opportunities to obtain healthcare coverage in the first place through either the federal or state marketplaces or the expansions of Medicaid. It protects against coverage limitations based on preexisting conditions or lifetime limits, which previously limited the healthcare available to people with disabilities. It guarantees coverage of services for mental illnesses and developmental disabilities. It provides access to long-term, home-based health care, which can mean the difference between institutionalization and independence to people .with disabilities. And it expressly precludes discrimination in access to healthcare. Indeed, Congress expressly intended the ACA to benefit people with disabilities specifically. By including these provisions, Congress intentionally sought to benefit people with disabilities. It would not have wanted to sacrifice all of these protections merely because the minimum-coverage provision were declared invalid. The COVID-19 pandemic underscores the impact of the ACA on these issues. Among other things, the pandemic has greatly increased the number of unemployed Americans who may . seek coverage through the ACA marketplaces or Medicaid and likely will substantially increase the number of people with disabilities, many of whom will need long-term health care for the lasting effects of the disease. It has also led to concerns about the potential rationing of scarce but potentially lifesaving health care resources (e.g., ventilators and ICU beds) based on the existence and severity of a patient's disability-a result the ACA forbids. Now especially, invalidating the ACA as a whole would have a devastating effect on the care and services available to the growing number of people with disabilities in our country. Congress expressly sought to expand these health benefits for all, but particularly to those most vulnerable to health insurance barriers: people with disabilities. That intention should guide this Court in concluding that, even if the minimum-coverage provision is deemed invalid, it can be severed, saving the remainder of the Act, and avoiding the unthinkable damage to people with disabilities that wholesale invalidation would deliver. ARGUMENT I. The ACA Uniquely and Extensively Benefits People With Disabilities, and Congress Would Have Preferred Severability to Avoid Disproportionate Harm to That Same Population. In enacting the ACA, one of Congress's express goals was to protect people with disabilities. The act does so in many critically important ways. These benefits, which would survive even in the absence of the minimum-coverage provision, strongly counsel in favor of honoring Congress's intent and severing that provision, if necessary. The extent of the benefits to people with disabilities running through the entire Act supports the conclusion that Congress would not have wanted to cast aside these benefits-and these beneficiaries-merely because the minimum-coverage provision were deemed invalid. The health care challenges for people with disabilities start with the fact that they face significant barriers to finding and maintaining employment. In 2017, the employment rate of non-institutionalized working-age people with disabilities in the United States was 37.3%, compared with 79.4% of people without disabilities. Whether it is explicit or implicit bias in the hiring process, an adverse employment action based on misguided assumptions, or a failure to provide reasonable accommodations to an employee, disability discrimination in employment remains pervasive. Moreover, people with disabilities often lack the employment and health care services and supports they need to secure and maintain work. Because of the many societal barriers to employment, people with disabilities are much less likely to have employer-provided health insurance than people without disabilities. While the majority-65.4% in 2017-of Americans without disabilities obtain health insurance from their employers, this statistic almost perfectly inverts as to people with disabilities. In 2017, only 34.7% of people with disabilities had employer-provided coverage-meaning that 65.3% did not. Accordingly, most people with disabilities must look elsewhere for health insurance, either through plans not sponsored by employers or through Medicaid or Medicare. Before the ACA's passage, searching for private insurance was often a futile endeavor with limited coverage options. Private insurance was not a realistic option for many people with disabilities because of pre-existing condition exclusions, annual or lifetime limits on benefits, and high premium costs. Even if private coverage was available, people with disabilities still might require services that those private health insurance plans refused to cover, such as durable medical equipment, mental health and substance use disorder services, or rehabilitation and habilitation services. Unable to obtain adequate private insurance, many people with disabilities turned to Medicaid and/or Medicare as their only options. Indeed, in 2009-before passage of the ACA-58.2% of people with disabilities received insurance from Medicare or Medicaid, compared to just 7.6% of people without disabilities. But many people with disabilities could not qualify for Medicare or Medicaid. For example, individuals without a "qualifying permanent disability" (e.g., a blind or Deaf individual) and those who earned income in excess of a defined poverty line were excluded from coverage. Still others faced long waiting periods-a newly disabled individual had to wait two years from the date of disability before Medicare benefits could begin, or up to a year for Medicaid, depending on the individual's state of residence. These individuals were left stranded, without the coverage they needed to maintain their health and live full and independent lives. The ACA brought significant and measurable improvements in access to health insurance and the quality of health insurance plans to people with disabilities. Since the ACA's passage, the uninsured rate for people with disabilities has fallen significantly. In 2009, 17.4% of disabled individuals were not insured. By 2017, that rate had fallen to 9.8%. The rate of those with disabilities who received health insurance from their employer stayed roughly constant during that time frame, namely, 36.5% in 2009 and 34.7% in 2017. Thus, the largest gains for people with disabilities came from the ACA's Medicaid expansion, with 42.9% receiving Medicaid coverage in 2017, up from 34.9% in 2009. Altogether, at least 2.5 million more Americans with disabilities gained access to health care due to the ACA. These effects were fully intended by Congress. Several provisions of the ACA specifically and expressly address deficiencies in previously available services for people with disabilities, relieving them and their families from often overwhelming out-of-pocket costs. The legislative history is in accord. As one Senator observed, "The ACA is good to remind us that we are, once again, an American family; that no one should be discriminated against simply because they are sick or have an illness or because fate has dealt them a blow by becoming disabled. That is what this bill is about more than anything else." As another legislator explained, "this landmark legislation will end abusive health insurance practices that prevent people from purchasing and maintaining their coverage when they are sick; it will ban yearly and lifetime insurance caps, so individuals with chronic, disabling conditions don't lose coverage and end up in bankruptcy." Now more than ever, it is vitally important to preserve the gains the ACA created and to continue to provide people with disabilities-and indeed all Americans-access to expanded health care coverage through non-employer based insurance or Medicaid. Early estimates show that COVID-19 and the economic devastation it has brought may result in up to 35 million people losing their jobs, and their employer-based insurance, thereby becoming newly reliant on the expanded insurance and (in some states) Medicaid options provided by the ACA. Given the systemic discrimination that already makes obtaining and maintaining employment difficult for people with disabilities, the ACA's programs and services are more important than ever. Because Congress would not have wanted to jettison these critical protections, the Court should find that the minimum-coverage provision is severable should it conclude that it is invalid. II.. The ACA's Expansion of Health Care Access and Coverage for People With Disabilities Has Greatly Benefitted Society as a Whole. The ACA's specific, positive impacts on people with disabilities extend beyond that population alone. Research has consistently demonstrated that the ACA's improved access to health care for people with disabilities has benefited the broader population in many ways. First, the ACA's expansion of Medicaid eligibility has enabled more people with disabilities to access the workforce. Many people with disabilities depend on health care services and supports-items and services as simple as a wheelchair, pain management treatment, mental health supports, or an accurate glucose monitor-to perform basic tasks, go to work, or even get out of bed. Several studies examined the impact that increased access to health care-and specifically the expansion of Medicaid-has had on employment rates. Most studies show a significant positive link between Medicaid expansion and employment rates; none show a negative correlation. Because of the ACA, people with disabilities are less likely to face the dilemma of keeping their health insurance or working to their fullest potential and losing good health coverage because of income thresholds or other barriers to coverage. In the now 37 states (including the District of Columbia) that have expanded Medicaid coverage, people with disabilities are more likely to be employed and fewer people are likely to report not working because of a disability, in comparison to states that have not expanded Medicaid. Second, research shows that expanded access to health care may reduce hospital emergency room usage. A study examining California emergency room usage found that "emergency patients actually had a lower likelihood of being frequent users after the ACA's implementation," after controlling for other variables in the population. The study's authors explained: While our findings do not provide evidence that the ACA caused these changes, they suggest that expanded Medicaid coverage might have allowed patients to access needed medical services outside of the emergency room. This might have been especially true among people with chronic conditions who used the emergency room frequently pre ACA but who became connected to a primary care provider as a result of the ACA Medicaid expansion via Medicaid managed care plans. The ACA's increase in options for Medicaid coverage of disabled individuals and the provision of long-term services and supports ("LTSS") under Medicaid also have important ramifications for the broader population. Specifically, these options have reduced reliance on informal, unpaid caregivers, such as family members who provide care to a disabled parent, child or other family member. In 2013, unpaid informal caregivers (primarily family members) provided up to three-quarters of uncompensated LTSS care, amounting to an estimated $470 billion in unpaid care. Additionally, family members and other informal caregivers are frequently called on to provide more complex and demanding medical or nursing care for which they may lack training, including medication management, wound care, and incontinence care. Providing LTSS coverage through Medicaid to individuals with disabilities relieves economic and practical the burdens on caregivers, allowing some to be paid for their caregiving work and others to return to other work while their family members receive proper and necessary. care. Finally, Medicaid expansion has the potential to reduce the needless incarceration of people with disabilities. As a result of the expansion, many people with disabilities now have access to community-based services that reduce the likelihood that they will have police encounters and find themselves incarcerated. The expansion has also made it possible for many people with disabilities to receive needed services when they re-enter society following incarceration. "Upon release from prison and jail, individuals are often uninsured, making it difficult to access stable sources of care in the community to address these needs. Expanding health insurance to these individuals through the ACA will likely facilitate their ability to access needed care and manage their ongoing conditions." In fact, states that have expanded Medicaid have enrolled a significant percentage of newly incarcerated individuals, helping to connect those individuals to the services and care they need upon their release. III. Several Generally Applicable Provisions in the ACA Are Critical to Providing People With Disabilities Access to Health Care. The ACA contains a number of provisions that apply equally to all Americans, regardless of disability status or income, but have been especially valuable- indeed critical-to ensure that people with disabilities have access to adequate and affordable health care. None are dependent on the continued existence of the minimum-coverage provision. The current COVID-19 pandemic underscores the crucial nature of these protections and their importance to people with disabilities. As the nightly news reminds us on a daily basis, people with chronic conditions such as diabetes or weakened immune systems and people in long-term care facilities or other institutions are far more likely to be infected with the virus and far more likely to suffer its most severe effects. In addition, early indications are that the disease itself and its effects will increase the incidence and severity of physical and cognitive disabilities as well as increased mental illness. A. Protections for Pre-Existing Conditions One of the ACA's central benefits is the protection it provides to people with pre-existing conditions. This requirement protects such individuals from being denied coverage altogether or from being charged exorbitant premiums. The non-partisan Kaiser Family Foundation estimates that nationwide, roughly 27% of adults under the age of 65-totaling 53.8 million Americans-have a pre-existing condition that without the ACA could result in the loss of coverage. Research conducted before the ACA's passage by the non-partisan Commonwealth Fund found that 53% of individuals with health problems who tried to buy coverage in the individual market found it very difficult or impossible to find a health plan with the coverage they needed, compared to 31% of those without a pre-existing condition. In addition, 46% were denied coverage, charged more, or had benefits excluded from their plan because of a pre-existing condition. Because many people have disabilities for their entire lives, they were particularly at risk for losing insurance coverage on this basis. They also have a disproportionate need for health insurance, given the high health care costs associated with certain types of disabilities. Prior to the ACA, insurers routinely denied coverage to people with disabilities such as vision loss, autism, and mental health-related conditions. In fact, according to a 2012 Government Accountability Office study, mental health disorders were the second most commonly reported condition that could result in a denial of coverage, affecting 19 million people nationwide. B. Guaranteed Issue Prior to the ACA, insurers could effectively deny coverage to someone because of their disability. The ACA's guaranteed-issue provision prohibits that. In general, this provision requires insurers to issue a health plan to any applicant, regardless of their health status or disability. Previously, only six states required insurers to do so. The ACA expands that protection to the entire country and requires each issuer that offers coverage in the individual or group market to accept every employer and individual in the state that applies for it during the operative enrollment periods. Though many people with disabilities use public health insurance programs, access to the private markets is another important avenue for obtaining coverage. Prohibiting issuers from refusing to issue policies to people with disabilities helps expand private insurance as a viable source of coverage for them and may serve to reduce reliance on (and thus save costs for) public programs. C. Dependent Coverage for Adult Children The ACA also requires many health plans to make dependent child coverage available under a parent's plan for children up to the age of 26. This provision has improved access to health care for all young adults, including young adults with disabilities. The ACA's expanded dependent coverage has reduced the overall uninsured rate by approximately 20%. Studies have shown that "young adults with health problems and foreseeable health care needs" have seen greater increases in health coverage as a result of the ACA's expanded dependent coverage. Similarly, "the uninsurance rate among young adults who may have mental health care needs and seek treatment declined by 12.4% because of the provision." The disproportionate benefits for youths with disabilities are consistent with research showing that young adults with disabilities on average have lower rates of coverage, are more likely to lack regular health care providers, have more unmet health care needs, receive fewer routine checkups, and have decreased access to health care than older adults. Without the ACA, these disparities would surely grow even wider, resulting in a reversal of these positive developments for younger people with disabilities. D. Essential Health Benefits The ACA also mandates a minimum level of benefits that health plans in the individual and small-group markets must provide. The ACA requires all individual and small-group plans, and all plans sold in the state exchanges, to cover "essential health benefits." The ACA defines "essential health benefits" to include, inter alia, hospitalization, outpatient medical care, mental health and substance abuse treatment, rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices, and prescription drugs. The ACA grants the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") authority to further define the benefits included in each benefit category, and directs the Secretary to ensure that the scope of "essential health benefits" is equal to the scope of benefits provided by a "typical employer plan." Notably, HHS must define "essential health benefits" in a manner that does not discriminate on the basis of disability or health status or otherwise discourage people with significant health needs from enrolling in their plans. Of particular importance is the inclusion of rehabilitative and habilitative services and devices as essential health benefits. Habilitative services and devices are provided to help an individual attain new skills not developed because of a disabling condition and then maintain or prevent deterioration of such skills. In contrast, rehabilitative services and devices are intended to help a person regain, maintain, or prevent/decrease deterioration of a skill or function that may have been lost because of a disabling condition. Prior to the ACA, health plans would typically cover rehabilitative services, such as occupational, physical, or speech therapy to help individuals with an accident or illness recover their ability to walk, speak and function. However, habilitative services were generally excluded, as insurers often argued that such services were not medically necessary if they would not result in "improvement" or if an individual did not have some level of functional ability in the first place. Likewise, habilitative devices include durable medical equipment, such as walkers, ventilators, wheelchairs and glucose monitors, which help individuals maintain their health and live independently. Another key category of "essential health benefits" is mental health and substance use disorder services (collectively, "behavioral health services"). Prior to the ACA, 38% of health plans did not provide coverage for mental or behavioral health care services, and 45% of health plans did not provide coverage "for substance abuse disorder services. Though Congress had required group insurers to provide coverage for certain behavioral health benefits that was no more restrictive than coverage for other medical benefits covered by the health plan, these requirements did not translate into comparable coverage for behavioral health services. The ACA extended the federal parity provisions to require behavioral health parity in the individual markets, and the inclusion of behavioral health services as "essential health benefits" provided additional strength to the parity requirements. E. Ban on Annual and Lifetime Limits The ACA also prohibits insurers from imposing lifetime or annual limits on the amount of essential health benefits they must cover. In the decade before the ACA, the majority (59%) of workers with employer-provided health plans faced a cap on lifetime benefits. As a result, health insurance coverage could discontinue forever once the limit had been reached. The ACA now prohibits both lifetime and annual limits on individual, small group, and employer coverage for essential health benefits. This prohibition has profoundly affected people with disabilities, particularly those who require lifelong health services. Not surprisingly, people with disabilities, on average, utilize more health care and incur more medical expenses than people without disabilities. The ACA has allowed those with chronic conditions to find stable insurance coverage that will not be suddenly and completely exhausted.62 For people with disabilities requiring regular medical attention, the ACA's ban on lifetime and annual limits has dramatically reduced the likelihood of them or their families having to endure otherwise avoidable personal bankruptcy as a cost of obtaining needed medical treatment. F. Non-Discrimination Requirements Finally, the ACA expanded protections for disabled individuals through the expansion of non-discrimination requirements. Section 1557 of the ACA adopts and applies existing federal laws that prohibit discrimination on the grounds of disability, among others. It applies non-discrimination provisions broadly to: (1) any health program or activity, any part of which is receiving federal financial assistance; (2) any publicly-administered health program or activity; and (3) the state health care exchanges created by the ACA. In its implementing regulations, Section 1557 specifically prohibits discriminatory health plan benefit designs, a subtle and insidious form of discrimination against disabled people. An issuer does so by, among other things, designing a plan that effectively discourages people with disabilities from enrolling or limits the scope of coverage in a way that effectively voids or reduces the benefit that a person may receive from the insurance. For example, a plan could exclude certain types of treatment centers from its provider network, thereby deterring people who rely on that type of treatment from enrolling in the plan. These provisions provide a powerful protection for people with disabilities, allowing them to seek redress from those who may want to exclude them from receiving the health care they need or to make it unfairly cost prohibitive. The critical importance of the ACA's nondiscrimination requirements has been on full display in the ongoing COVID-19 crisis, ensuring that access to scarce medical resources may not be denied because of the existence or severity of an individual's disability. Although a number of states' plans for allocating scarce resources have contained such discriminatory considerations, following guidance issued by the HHS Office of Civil Rights and initial enforcement actions taken, many states are working with stakeholders to comply with the ACA and other applicable prohibitions on such discrimination. IV. The ACA's Changes to Medicaid Provide People With Disabilities Better, and Sometimes Unprecedented, Access to Health Care. The ACA's expansion of Medicaid also foreseeably and intentionally benefited people with disabilities. Medicaid is an important source of health insurance coverage for such people, and the ACA's improvements to the Medicaid program-which are not dependent on the minimum-coverage provision- have had a substantial impact on their ability to access much-needed health care services. A. Medicaid Eligibility Expansion Prior to the ACA, there were substantial gaps in Medicaid coverage that left individuals with disabilities without necessary services and care. To qualify for Medicaid, an individual generally had to have low income and meet one of several eligibility categories. Low-income children, parents or caretakers of children, children or adults with disabilities, and elderly adults were all eligible for Medicaid, but not all people with low income (and health care needs) qualified. The ACA expanded Medicaid eligibility to include all adults with income up to 138% of the federal poverty line. Though the Court later ruled that the expansion of Medicaid was optional and up to individual states, to date 36 states and the District of Columbia have expanded Medicaid eligibility to the limits allowed by the ACA. Medicaid eligibility based solely on income is especially important for individuals with disabilities because it generally provides faster and more certain access to health insurance coverage, without being required to go through the delay and uncertainty of obtaining a formal disability determination for eligibility. Moreover, Medicaid's narrow definition of "disability" is notoriously underinclusive of many people with chronic conditions and functional limitations who need health care services and support to access employment and to participate in their communities. Of all the changes brought about by the ACA, Medicaid expansion has most directly and substantially increased health care coverage for people with disabilities. Research has shown that the expansion of Medicaid under the ACA has especially benefitted various marginalized populations, resulting in more people with health care coverage in expansion states as compared to the general population. The ACA's Medicaid expansion is responsible for the largest portion of the decrease in the percentage of people with disabilities who are uninsured, with 42.9% receiving insurance from Medicaid in 2017, an increase from 34.9% in 2009. B. Long-Term Care Services and Supports The ACA also provided additional flexibility for Medicaid to cover long-term services and supports ("LTSS"), which are often necessary to provide people with disabilities with services they and their families need. Crucially, the ACA encourages rebalancing Medicaid to provide appropriate LTSS in the individual's own homes and communities rather than in institutions, as many people with disabilities strongly prefer-and as is their right under this Court's decision in Olmstead v. L. C. and under the ACA. The prospect of allowing people with disabilities to routinely receive care in their homes or communities rather than institutions has particular poignancy now, when a disproportionate percentage of COVID-19 deaths originate in institutionalized populations. "LTSS" refers to a variety of health and social services that assist people with functional limitations caused by chronic conditions or disabilities to live independently in their homes and communities. LTSS includes assistance with activities of daily living (e.g., eating, bathing, and dressing) and instrumental activities of daily living (e.g., housekeeping, preparing meals, and managing medication). While LTSS can be provided informally by unpaid caregivers such as family or friends, it may also be provided formally by paid caregivers. Traditionally, LTSS was provided in an institutional setting (e.g., a nursing home), but there has been a shift to providing it in the individual's home or in community-based settings (e.g., personal care assistant may come to one's private home or a group home), so as to afford individuals the choice to live in their communities. Under the ADA, individuals with disabilities have the civil right to choose to receive LTSS in the community, rather than in an institutional setting, where appropriate. People with disabilities of all ages are the primary population served by LTSS. Medicaid is the primary payer for LTSS as other public and private health insurers do not offer such coverage. All states are required to provide coverage under Medicaid for nursing facility services, but home and community based services ("HCBS") coverage is optional. Medicaid LTSS expenditures include services and supports for seniors and people with a wide range of physical, intellectual, developmental, and mental disabilities. The ACA provides new and expanded options for, states to offer LTSS in home and community-based settings to Medicaid beneficiaries. That option is not only preferred by most people with disabilities but is also more cost-efficient than institutional services. A number of new programs created by the ACA expand eligibility for and provide increased access to home and community based care. 1. State Plan Home and Community Based Services Option States have had the option to include home- and community-based services in their state Medicaid plans without a waiver since 2005. However, the ACA expanded financial eligibility for HCBS and allowed states to target specific populations for coverage. States could provide full Medicaid benefits, as well as home and community based services, to individuals who are not otherwise eligible for Medicaid and who meet certain financial and functional eligibility criteria. These provisions benefit children and adults with significant mental health needs and people with intellectual and developmental disabilities. 2. Community First Choice Option The ACA also created the Community First Choice Option, which allows applicant states to provide home and community based services to Medicaid enrollees, and increased the federal share of funding available to participating states by 6%. States can provide these services to individuals who are eligible for the state's Medicaid program and whose income does not exceed 150% of the federal poverty line. Alternatively, if the individual's income is higher than this threshold but the individual has been determined to require an institutional level of care and is eligible for nursing facility services, then the individual is also eligible for HCBS. For states with waiting lists of children in need of services, the ACA creates opportunities for them to expand their home and community care programs. Five states have implemented the Community First Choice Option: California, Maryland, Montana, Oregon, and Texas. Texas, for instance, now covers assistance with activities of daily living and household assistance, "habilitation" services that help people learn to accomplish daily living activities more independently, emergency response services, and service coordination in an individual's home or community. The Medicaid waiver programs provide coverage for services, such as independent living skills, that are important for individuals with disabilities and can mean the difference between institutionalization or continuing to live in one's home. Invalidating the ACA would not only obscure the legal obligation for states to meet the needs and expressed desires of disabled people, but would also decrease the options available for states to meet these obligations. It would also eliminate federal statutory authority to approve and implement innovative programs that have provided much-needed LTSS to individuals with disabilities who are covered by Medicaid. C. Behavioral Health Parity As set forth in Section III.D, behavioral health services were generally not covered by private health insurance. The ACA expanded their availability by requiring behavioral health services to be included in Medicaid to the same extent as other medical benefits and to be provided to Medicaid-expansion adults and other adult populations. This, too, is a substantial benefit to people with disabilities that invalidation of the ACA would remove. Taken together, the ACA's provisions have transformed the lives of people with disabilities. As Congress intended, the ACA has increased the availability of comprehensive health care, allowing those who previously did not have coverage to gain access to essential health services and supports. It has increased the affordability of coverage, significantly expanded access to and quality of services, and decreased healthcare disparities. Invalidating the ACA now would reverse all these gains and disproportionately harm an already marginalized group of Americans. Congress would not have wanted to take away what it worked so hard to provide to people most in need. Therefore, should the Court deem the minimum-coverage provision invalid, it should sever it to preserve the remainder of the statute and the substantial benefits it provides to people with disabilities. CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, amici respectfully suggest that the Court should reverse the holding of the Fifth Circuit. 