This brief is filed on behalf of 36 state hospital associations, which represent over 5,000 hospitals and health systems that treat tens of millions of patients every year and currently stand on the frontlines of a global pandemic. Amici and their members (hereafter "amici") share an interest in delivering quality, affordable health care, and therefore in the preservation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since enactment of the ACA, amici have spent substantial resources embracing the law's reforms that have resulted in the delivery of higher-quality, more coordinated care at a lower cost. Amici are submitting this brief because they support the ACA and because reverting back to old delivery models would significantly disrupt amici's operations and patient care. Although this brief focuses on the delivery of health care services in this country, amici endorse the constitutional and severability arguments presented by petitioners, which demonstrate that the Fifth Circuit wrongly decided this appeal. Amici agree with petitioners that the ACA's minimum coverage provision, as amended, is constitutional. But if this Court decides otherwise, amici concur that this Court should hold that the rest of the ACA must remain intact. As petitioners have demonstrated, it is clear that the 2017 Congress would have intended that the ACA remain in force if the minimum coverage provision were judicially invalidated. After all, the 2017 Congress thought it was legislatively invalidating that provision when it zeroed out the tax for noncompliance. Having observed the ACA work for years-including in hospitals and health systems across the country-the 2017 Congress had expressly rejected legislation that would have repealed the entire ACA which definitively demonstrates its intent that the remaining provisions are severable from the minimum coverage provision. INTRODUCTION The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act made health care available to millions of individuals through insurance subsidies and expansion of the federal Medicaid program. Often overlooked in the controversy regarding those provisions, which occupied just two of ten titles and fewer than 300 pages of the 974-page bill, are the ACA's many other basic health care reforms. These include, for example, amendments to the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, a pathway for approval of generic biologics by the Food and Drug Administration, provisions making Medicare Part D prescription drugs more affordable, the addition of nutritional information to restaurant menus, disclosure of drug company gifts to physicians, and the subject of this brief: foundational changes to the way health care services are delivered and paid for. The ACA's "delivery reforms," which the Fifth Circuit and the district court did not even mention in their opinions, transformed the way hospitals and health systems deliver and are paid for health care. These provisions have promoted innovative, new models of care and have provided substantial investments in the health care workforce. They also addressed prevention and launched new initiatives to improve health care quality. In the ten years since the ACA was enacted, these reforms have made fundamental improvements in the quality and coordination of care, saving billions of federal dollars. They have become integral to the delivery of health care services in the United States. ARGUMENT In their attempt to strike down every provision of the ACA, respondents have characterized the Act's major health care delivery reforms as "minor" provisions. This misnomer led the district court to invalidate these important provisions along with the rest of the law because the court considered them "adjuncts of" the requirement that most Americans obtain health insurance coverage or pay a penalty (the "minimum coverage provision"). The Fifth Circuit, to its credit, recognized that the district court's severability analysis was superficial and ordered the district court to conduct the severability analysis with a "finer-toothed comb." Nevertheless, the Fifth Circuit adopted the district court's faulty taxonomy, labeling scores of critical provisions as "minor" and abdicating its responsibility to rule on the purely legal severability issue. Both courts failed to recognize that the ACA's delivery reforms have transformed the delivery of health care in the United States by providing more integrated, cost-effective care, while maintaining quality. And because there is no basis for concluding that Congress intended those provisions-which were enacted in separate titles and function independently of the ACA's insurance-related provisions-to be inseverable, they, along with the other remaining provisions, should be left intact regardless of how the Court rules on the constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision. I. THE ACA'S SIGNIFICANT REFORMS THAT MODERNIZED THE DELIVERY OF HEALTH CARE IN THE UNITED STATES WERE IGNORED BY THE DECISIONS BELOW. The ACA is best known for its provisions that reformed the individual market for private health insurance, including the minimum coverage provision. The law created Health Insurance Marketplaces where individuals may purchase insurance, provided subsidies to help individuals buy insurance, required that insurance policies permit young adults up to age 26 to remain on their parents' health insurance plans, and prohibited insurers from denying coverage ("guaranteed issue") or charging drastically higher rates because of an individual's health status ("community rating"). It is similarly well understood that the ACA incentivized states to expand Medicaid coverage to millions of Americans. Importantly, the ACA also contained landmark provisions that have made a sea change in health care delivery, coordination, and payment. These reforms have modernized the way hospitals and health systems deliver services. The law also invested in the health care workforce, prioritized wellness and prevention, and launched new initiatives to study and compare health care quality. All these important innovations were swept under the rug in the decisions below and remain in limbo pending this Court's review. A. The ACA Made Fundamental Changes to the Delivery of Health Care in the United States, Improving Patients' Lives and Saving Tens of Billions of Dollars. The ACA's reforms include pioneering new models of care that foster better coordination among health care professionals. They also include payments to health systems based on the quality of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries, with less reliance on reimbursement based on each separate hospital and doctor's visit, test, and service provided (the "fee-for-service" model). These paradigm shifts have had ripple effects on hospitals and health systems both because the federal government is the largest payer for health care in the United States and because private insurers often follow the federal government's payment policies. Leading these reforms is the ACA-created Center for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation (CMMI), which tests innovative payment and service delivery models that have the potential to reduce Medicare, Medicaid, or Children's Health Insurance Program expenditures while preserving or enhancing the quality of care for beneficiaries. CMMI has launched over 40 new payment and health care service delivery models, covering more than 18 million patients and 200,000 health care providers across the country. The map below from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) shows where in the country health care providers are working with CMMI to test methods for improving the delivery and coordination of care at a lower cost. According to the Congressional Budget Office, CMMI's programs are projected to reduce federal spending by as much as $34 billion by 2026. And as predicted, the private market is adopting CMMI alternative payment models. A CMMI initiative that has had a particularly significant impact on the way hospitals provide care to patients is the Medicare Shared Savings Program for Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs). The Shared Savings Program provides financial incentives to health care providers, including hospitals, primary care physicians, and nursing homes, to join ACOs. The ACO members agree to coordinate and take collective responsibility for the quality and costs of care for a specified patient population. In treating that population, if an ACO meets health care quality thresholds and provides care below a target budget, the provider network splits the savings 50/50 with Medicare. Alternatively, ACOs may split the savings 60/40 if the providers agree in advance to share excess costs with the government in the event their spending exceeds the target budget. A 2017 Office of the Inspector General report found that in the first three years of the program: 428 participating Shared Savings Program ACOs served 9.7 million beneficiaries; most of the ACOs reduced Medicare spending compared to their benchmarks, achieving a net spending reduction of nearly $1 billion; and ACOs generally improved the quality of care they provided. The ACA also established a pilot project to test Medicare bundled payment models called Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI). Bundling links payments for the multiple services that Medicare beneficiaries receive during a specific episode of care across different settings (including hospitals, physician's offices, and post-acute care providers). Under the initiative, hospitals and other health care providers may enter into payment arrangements that include financial and performance accountability for episodes of care. For example, one model bundles payments for all inpatient hospital services, physician services, post-acute services, and hospital readmission care that a patient receives in connection with a hip or knee replacement. As a follow-on to BPCI, in 2016 CMMI launched a bundled payment program for hip and knee replacements that is mandatory for hospitals in certain geographic markets. As one Senator described it during Congress's consideration of the ACA, "in effect, instead of paying for each specific service, under bundling there is essentially one payment to reward trying to deliver care in an integrated fashion." Research has shown that bundled payments can align incentives for providers, allowing them to deliver higher-quality, more coordinated care across all specialties and settings. A 2018 report found that participants have responded to the initiative's incentives by reducing Medicare payments while maintaining quality of care. In October 2018, CMMI launched BPCI Advanced, an initiative to test bundling models for 32 additional episodes of care, with nearly 1,300 health systems signed up to participate. Other ACA "pay-for-performance" reforms tied Medicare payments to the quality of care delivered. A value-based purchasing (VBP) system now pays hospitals for their performance based on quality criteria while treating Medicare beneficiaries, instead of the quantity of procedures performed. Under the VBP program, CMS makes payments to hospitals based on how closely clinical best practices are followed and how well hospitals enhance patients' experience of care during hospital stays over a relevant time period. The Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program reduces Medicare payments to hospitals with "excessive" readmissions in order to incentivize patient safety and education. Research indicates that the law's incentives are working as intended: readmissions for certain health conditions decreased more rapidly after passage, and improvement was most significant for hospitals with the worst pre-ACA performance. Finally, the ACA established the Hospital-Acquired Condition Reduction Program. The program addresses patient safety by reducing Medicare payments for hospitals that rank in the lowest-performing quartile of hospital-acquired conditions (such as surgical site infections). Together, these reforms represent the most significant changes to the health care delivery and payment systems in more than 50 years. Some of these health care delivery reform programs have already achieved improvements across a range of measures. Although we expect these programs will continue to be evaluated and improved, they have already spurred significant investment and innovation among hospitals. B. The ACA Further Reformed Health Care Delivery by Investing in the Health Workforce, Focusing on Wellness and Prevention, and Creating Health Care Quality Initiatives. The ACA's reshaping of health care delivery went beyond changing service and payment models. The law also made substantial investments in the health care workforce and in graduate medical education, improved the focus on wellness and prevention, and launched measures intended to study and improve health care quality. Important to hospitals and health systems, the ACA strengthened the health care workforce. The law established loan repayment programs designed to increase the size of the public health workforce. Hospitals, medical schools, and other entities became eligible for grants to develop, expand, and enhance educational training programs in primary care, nursing, mental and behavioral health. Unused residency training positions were redistributed among teaching hospitals to increase training of primary care physicians and general surgeons, and new positions were added. And the law preserved resident slots within a geographic location when a nearby teaching hospital closed. Data show that these workforce initiatives are increasing the number of health care providers in underserved and high-need areas, many of whom are currently working to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The ACA also initiated a transition of our health system from one that solely treats patients who are sick to one that also focuses on preventing people from becoming sick. The law created the National Prevention, Health Promotion and Public Health Council, chaired by the Surgeon General and composed of the heads of various federal agencies, to lead federal strategy with respect to wellness and prevention in the United States. The ACA also increased access to preventive care in Medicare and Medicaid, including a "Welcome to Medicare" comprehensive physical exam when one enters the Medicare program and annual wellness visits with no cost-sharing, as well as incentives to state Medicaid programs to cover preventive services. The law also created an Office of Women's Health within the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), to focus on women's health, wellness, and prevention. These reforms have led to substantial progress in promoting prevention and public health. Finally, the ACA launched new initiatives designed to improve health care quality. For example, the law directed the HHS Secretary to design a national quality improvement strategy to elevate priorities that have the greatest potential to improve patient outcomes, patient-centeredness and efficiency. In addition, the ACA established institutions to study health care quality: the Center for Quality Improvement and Patient Safety conducts and supports research on patient safety and health care quality, measurement, reporting and improvement; and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute conducts comparative clinical effectiveness research to evaluate the effectiveness, risks, and benefits of two or more medical treatments or services. C. The Decisions Below Failed to Consider the ACA's Transformative Health Care Delivery Reforms. Rather than grappling with the substantial reforms that Congress adopted in the ACA, including those described above, the district court chose a judicial shortcut around even considering these reforms in the court's severability analysis. Adopting a framework promoted by respondents, the district court divided the provisions of the ACA other than the minimum coverage provision into three tranches. First, the court identified the community-rating and guaranteed issue provisions respecting private health insurance, as meriting separate consideration. Second, the court identified the ACA's remaining "major provisions," as "insurance regulations and taxes," "hospital-reimbursement reductions and other reductions in Medicare expenditures," the "health-insurance exchanges and their federal subsidies," "the employer responsibility assessment," and "Medicaid expansion." Distinct from the delivery reforms, the ACA contained reductions in Medicare and Medicaid reimbursements to hospitals and health systems that contributed over $100 billion in savings to the Medicare Trust Fund. For example, the ACA reduced yearly "market basket" payment increases to hospitals by a "productivity adjustment," reflecting gains in efficiency in the overall economy, and reduced payments to hospitals that serve a "disproportionate share" of indigent patients. Finally, the court relegated all other provisions to the class of "minor provisions." With this oversimplified classification, the district court avoided consideration of the significance of any provision that it categorized as "minor," including every one of the provisions discussed above. Rather than applying the principles adopted by this Court to determine whether these important provisions are severable from the minimum coverage requirement, which it had ruled unconstitutional, the court simply surmised that "perhaps it is impossible to know which minor provisions Congress would have passed absent the Individual Mandate." The Fifth Circuit correctly found that the district court's severability analysis was "incomplete," but then failed to rule on severability. If this Court holds the minimum coverage provision unconstitutional as amended and reaches the severability question, we urge it to reject the preferred rubric of the respondents and the district court that divides the ACA into "major" and "minor" provisions. Such a grouping misclassifies groundbreaking reforms to the delivery of patient care and could lead to a flawed analysis as to severability. As is obvious from even a brief description of the health care delivery reform provisions, these innovations are hardly "minor." Instead they propelled hospitals and health systems to invest substantial resources over the past decade to reform the delivery of health care. II. THE ACA'S DELIVERY REFORMS ARE SEVERABLE BECAUSE THEY ARE WHOLLY INDEPENDENT OF THE MINIMUM COVERAGE PROVISION. Provisions of a statute must be severed and left intact unless it is "evident that Congress would not have enacted those provisions which are within its power, independently of those which are not." Murphy v. NCAA, 138 S. Ct. 1461, 1482 (2018) (emphasis added) (citation omitted); see also Ayotte v. Planned Parenthood of N. New England, 546 U.S. 320, 330 (2006) (Because the "touchstone" of severability analysis is legislative intent, the Court must ask: "Would the legislature have preferred what is left of its statute to no statute at all?"). Here, there is no basis for concluding that Congress would not have enacted the rest of the ACA absent the minimum coverage provision. At times, this Court has also asked "whether the law remains 'fully operative' without the invalid provisions." Murphy, 138 S. Ct. at 1482 (quoting Free Enter. Fund v. PCAOB, 561 U.S. 477, 509 (2010)). This question is easily answered by experience: All other ACA provisions-including the delivery reforms described above-have remained fully operative since the tax for violating the minimum coverage provision became $0. In fact, Congress demonstrated its clear intent to uphold the corpus of the ACA without that provision when it enacted the Tax Cuts & Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA).41 In that law, Congress zeroed out the financial penalty for violating the minimum coverage requirement, but it did not repeal a single one of the ACA's other reforms. By leaving the remainder of the ACA in place, Congress answered the key severability question of whether it "preferred what is left of the ACA to no statute at all." Congress did not even debate deleting other ACA provisions when it enacted the TCJA's targeted change. To the contrary, the TCJA's legislative history underscores that Congress meant to leave the ACA's other provisions undisturbed. Congress modified this single provision only after dozens of high-profile votes to repeal the entirety of the ACA had failed. And when Congress did enact the TCJA, one of its principal authors, Senate Finance Committee Chairman Orrin Hatch, avowed that "repealing the tax does not take anyone's health insurance away . The bill does nothing to alter Title I of the ACA, which includes all of the insurance mandates and requirements related to preexisting conditions and essential health benefits." Congress certainly did not intend for the TCJA to affect other of the ACA's titles such as the delivery reforms. As petitioners demonstrated, the fact that Congress left the rest of the ACA in place when it eliminated the minimum coverage payment answers the severability question. The remainder of the law must remain. Congress's intent when it passed the ACA is not relevant to determining the impact of the 2017 law. But if it were, the ACA's text and structure demonstrate that Congress intended to enact delivery reforms independent of the minimum coverage provision. Title I addressed the private health insurance market and contained the minimum coverage provision. Title II provided for Medicaid expansion. But the next three titles reflected Congress's well-documented, independent goal to modernize the health system through the initiatives described above: Title III aimed to "improve the quality and efficiency of health care" by "transforming the health care delivery system"; Title IV focused on "prevention of chronic disease and improving public health"; and Title V invested in the health care workforce.Titles VI (transparency and integrity for federal health programs), VII (access to biologic drugs), VIII (a since-shuttered voluntary long-term care insurance program), and X (a collection of program updates) were also unrelated to the minimum coverage provision. Respondents are wrong to suggest that Congress codified its intent to not enact the remainder of the ACA without the minimum coverage provision in 42 U.S.C. 18091, 'Requirement to maintain minimum essential coverage; findings.'" These congressional findings, by their own terms, pertained only to "the individual responsibility requirement provided for in this section" and the private health-insurance market. 42 U.S.C. 18091(1). In fact, each finding in this section expressly mentioned "health insurance" or the "uninsured." As amici have shown, and hundreds of pages of statutory text make clear, congressional intent spanned far wider than merely regulating the private health insurance market. Debates from Congress's consideration of the ACA further demonstrate that in addition to expanding and improving insurance and Medicaid coverage, Congress independently enacted the ACA to improve the quality of care, reform delivery systems, invest in the health care workforce, and focus on prevention and wellness. Hence, these other provisions are severable and would survive even if this Court struck down some or all of the ACA's private health-insurance provisions. Indeed, the ACA was the culmination of congressional efforts to modernize health care delivery and reimbursement. In November 2008, Senator Max Baucus, then Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and one of the principal architects of the ACA, released a white paper outlining the goals for what would become the law. Senator Baucus would later call the white paper "the basis and springboard from which most of the ideas we have been debating, both in the House and in the Senate and on both sides of the aisle, come from." The white paper stated: Ensuring access to meaningful health coverage is a fundamental goal of health care reform, but there are also other vital priorities we must pursue. Among them is the critical need to improve the value of care provided in our health care system. We must take steps to ensure patients receive higher quality care, and do so in a way that reduces costs over the long-run. In short, the U.S. must get better value for the substantial dollars spent on health care. (Emphasis added). The white paper further stated that "Congress must dedicate the time and attention to graduate medical education that it deserves." Finally, the Baucus plan called to "immediately refocus our health care system toward prevention and wellness, rather than on illness and treatment." Congress held over 100 hearings, markups, and legislative meetings before passing the ACA, many of which explored issues distinct from private health insurance. These initiatives included seeking input from hospitals and health systems on ways to modernize the health care delivery system. As Senator Blanche Lincoln, a member of the Senate Finance Committee, summarized: We have the best hospitals and doctors, research and technologies in the world. Yet our delivery system is broken. For the last 24 months, the Senate Finance Committee has held hearings and roundtables, summits, all kinds of different deliberative efforts working in partnership with associations that represent providers, advocacy groups on behalf of patients, anybody who would come to the table to talk about how we reform this system and make it better for the constituents we serve, the patients who are the ultimate recipients of the health care system. Leading up to passage, Members of Congress made countless statements on the House and Senate floor championing the delivery reforms. Below is a representative sample: Speaker of the House Pelosi: "The list goes on and on about the health care reforms that are in this legislation," including "creating a healthier America through prevention, through wellness and innovation," and "improving care and benefits under Medicare." Senate Finance Committee Chairman Baucus: "I might mention, too-and this is very important, although we tend to lose sight of it-under this legislation, we provide delivery system reform." Senator Cantwell: "What we need to do, which is what exactly this bill sets us on a course and path to do, is to pay for value not for volume, to pay physicians on the value they deliver and the outcome of their patients instead of volume. If we did nothing else in health care reform but to change our payment structure to focus on this premise-paying for value and not for volume- then we would be delivering great long-term savings to our health care system." Senator Dodd: "The kinds of choices Senator Baucus and the Senate Finance Committee made, and the ones we considered in the Senate Health Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, were ones I believe most of my colleagues believe generally have to be dealt with: the quality of care, strengthening our workforce, dealing with the delivery system, increasing prevention and wellness in this country." Senator Kohl: "This bill will also train and expand the health care workforce so they are prepared to care for the growing elderly population. By implementing recommendations from the Institutes of Medicine, we will begin to address the severe shortage we face of direct care workers." Senator Wyden: "In terms of the real reforms that are in the bill, some of the most important have to do with the delivery system-the way American health care is essentially experienced across the land. The fact is that today's delivery system essentially rewards inefficiency. Payments are based on volume rather than quality . The Senate bill begins to move in the direction of what we have been doing in our part of the country for some time. The bill promotes what are called accountable care organizations. There are also changes in reimbursement." The titles and reforms highlighted above stand on their own. They are in no way "mere adjuncts of" the minimum coverage provision and the Medicaid expansion-or "mere aids to their effective execution," as respondents suggest. The way in which hospitals and health systems deliver and are paid for treating Medicare beneficiaries is entirely independent of whether individuals pay a penalty for failing to purchase private health insurance. Likewise, the minimum coverage provision's financial penalty has no bearing on teaching hospital residency slots, the National Prevention Strategy, and the institutions that were established to study health care quality. Since there is not a shred of evidence that Congress would have declined to enact these reforms absent the minimum coverage provision, they must remain in force. CONCLUSION This Court should reverse the Fifth Circuit's decision and hold the minimum coverage provision constitutional. If the Court holds the minimum coverage provision unconstitutional, it should sever that one provision and leave the rest of the ACA intact. Any other ruling would disrupt ten years of innovations that have become enmeshed in the health care landscape, wreak havoc in health care delivery in this country, and subvert the intent of Congress. 