Thirty-three state hospital associations, representing over 5,000 hospitals and health systems (together, "proposed amici"), respectfully move under Supreme Court Rule 37.2(b) for leave to file a brief as amici curiae in support of Petitioners. All parties were timely notified of proposed amici's intention to file this brief. The Petitioner States, Respondent States, and Respondent U.S. House of Representatives have all consented. The Individual Respondents did not object, and the Federal Respondents are considering the consent request. Given the potentially accelerated briefing schedule, proposed amici have chosen to submit this brief with a motion for leave to file rather than await additional consents. Notably, all five parties consented to the filing of an amici curiae brief on behalf of 24 state hospital associations (most of whom are the same as proposed amici) when the case was before the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. This case presents issues of monumental importance to proposed amici. As described in greater detail in the accompanying brief, proposed amici share an interest in delivering quality, affordable health care, and thus in the preservation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since enactment of the ACA, amici have spent considerable resources adopting the law's reforms that have resulted in the delivery of higher-quality, more coordinated care at a lower cost. Proposed amici are submitting this brief because they wish to ensure that the ACA's reforms remain in effect and because reverting back to old delivery models would significantly disrupt proposed amici's operations and patient care. This brief is filed on behalf of 33 state hospital associations, which represent over 5,000 hospitals and health systems that treat tens of millions of patients every year. Amici and their members (hereafter "amici") share an interest in delivering quality, affordable health care, and therefore in the preservation of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). Since enactment of the ACA, amici have spent substantial resources embracing the law's reforms that have resulted in the delivery of higher-quality, more coordinated care at a lower cost. Amici are submitting this brief because they are committed to ensuring that the ACA's reforms remain in effect and because reverting back to old delivery models would significantly disrupt amici's operations and patient care. Although this brief focuses on the adverse impact of the Fifth Circuit's decision on the delivery of health care services in this country, amici endorse the constitutional and severability arguments presented by petitioners, which demonstrate that the Fifth Circuit's opinion was wrongly decided. 3 Amici agree with petitioners that the ACA's minimum coverage provision, as amended, is constitutional. But if this Court decides otherwise, amici concur that this Court should reach the question of severability and hold that the rest of the ACA must remain intact- including the delivery reforms described in this brief. INTRODUCTION A specter of uncertainty now looms over health care delivery and financing in this country. After nearly a decade of lawsuits seeking to invalidate the ACA, the Fifth Circuit struck down the minimum coverage provision, as amended, and left unanswered whether anywhere from zero to one hundred percent of the remainder of the law should survive. Pet'r App. 51a-68a. The Fifth Circuit's deferred decision is remarkable given the panel majority's acknowledgment that the ACA "is a monumental piece of healthcare legislation that regulates a huge swath of the nation's economy and affects the healthcare decisions of millions of Americans." Id. at 2a. Underscoring the ACA's importance is the fact that even its lesser-known but equally important provisions have foundationally changed the U.S. health care system. The ACA's "delivery reforms," which the Fifth Circuit and the district court did not mention in their opinions, transformed the way hospitals and health systems deliver and are paid for health care. These reforms make fundamental improvements in the quality and coordination of care and have become integral to the delivery of health care services in the United States during the almost ten years since the ACA was enacted. Unless this Court grants certiorari and resolves the constitutionality and severability questions presented here, the valuable reforms designed to improve health care and lower cost will hang in limbo for several years. A delayed resolution may force hospitals to postpone or abandon the adoption of innovative models, such as Accountable Care Organizations, that are designed to improve health care and lower costs. Moreover, hospitals will almost certainly encounter increased difficulty raising money to finance the investments necessary to adopt these changes. Because ACA uncertainty results in bond rating downgrades, hospitals' access to capital will be adversely affected and thus expenses associated with necessary facility upgrades and other projects aimed at enhancing access to care will increase. Prompt and final resolution of these questions is necessary to settle how hospitals and health systems will continue to deliver care. ARGUMENT THE FIFTH CIRCUIT DECIDED IMPORTANT QUESTIONS OF FEDERAL LAW WHICH UNLESS OVERTURNED WILL PROFOUNDLY AFFECT THE AVAILABILITY AND QUALITY OF HEALTH CARE FOR MILLIONS OF AMERICANS AND WHICH SHOULD THEREFORE BE DECIDED BY THIS COURT. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act4 made health care available to more than 20 million individuals through insurance subsidies and expansion of the federal Medicaid program. The ACA is best known for its provisions that reformed the individual market for private health insurance, including the minimum coverage provision. The law created Health Insurance Marketplaces where individuals may purchase insurance, provided subsidies to help individuals buy insurance on the Marketplaces, required that insurance policies permit young adults up to age 26 to remain on their parents' health insurance plans, and prohibited insurers from denying coverage ("guaranteed issue") or charging drastically higher rates because of an individual's health status ("community rating"). It also included provisions that expand Medicaid coverage to millions of Americans. Often omitted in descriptions of the ACA are its landmark provisions that have made a sea change in health care delivery, coordination, and payment. These reforms have modernized the way hospitals and health systems deliver services. The law also invested in the health care workforce, prioritized wellness and prevention, and launched new initiatives to study and compare health care quality. All of these important innovations were jeopardized when the district court struck down the entire ACA and their future remains in doubt after the Fifth Circuit's decision. A. The ACA Made Fundamental Changes to the Delivery of Health Care in the United States, Improving Patients' Lives and Saving Tens of Billions of Dollars. The ACA's reforms include pioneering new models of care that foster better coordination between health care professionals, and payments to health systems, based on the quality of care provided to Medicare beneficiaries, with less reliance on reimbursement based on each separate hospital and doctor's visit, test, and service provided (the "fee-for-service" model). These paradigm shifts have had ripple effects on hospitals and health systems both because the federal government is the largest payer for health care in the United States and because private insurers often mirror the federal government's policies with respect to payment. As part of these reform efforts, the ACA created the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Innovation (CMMI) and gave it authority to test innovative payment and service delivery models that have the potential to reduce Medicare, Medicaid, or Children's Health Insurance Program expenditures while preserving or enhancing the quality of care for beneficiaries. CMMI has launched over 40 new payment and health care service delivery models, involving more than 18 million patients and 200,000 health care providers across the country. The map below from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) shows where in the country health care providers are working with CMMI to test methods for improving the delivery and coordination of care at a lower cost. According to a September 2016 report issued by the Congressional Budget Office, CMMI's programs are expected to reduce federal spending by roughly $34 billion from 2017 through 2026. Better care coordination was always a key objective of health reform. As Senator Max Baucus, Chairman of the Senate Finance Committee and one of the principal architects of the ACA, wrote in a 2008 white paper outlining the goals for what would become the law: Ensuring access to meaningful health coverage is a fundamental goal of health care reform, but there are also other vital priorities we must pursue. Among them is the critical need to improve the value of care provided in our health care system. We must take steps to ensure patients receive higher quality care, and do so in a way that reduces costs over the long-run. In short, the U.S. must get better value for the substantial dollars spent on health care. (Emphasis added). A CMMI initiative that has had a particularly significant impact on the way hospitals provide care to patients is the Medicare Shared Savings Program for Accountable Care Organizations (ACOs). The Shared Savings Program provides financial incentives to health care providers, including hospitals, primary care physicians, and nursing homes, to join together in ACOs. The ACO members agree to coordinate and take collective responsibility for the quality and total costs of care for a specified patient population. In treating that population, if an ACO meets health care quality thresholds and provides care below a target budget, the provider network splits the savings 50/50 with Medicare. Alternatively, ACOs may split the savings 60/40 if the providers agree in advance to share excess costs with the government in the event their spending exceeds the target budget. A 2017 Office of the Inspector General report found that in the first three years of the program: 428 participating Shared Savings Program ACOs served 9.7 million beneficiaries; most of the ACOs reduced Medicare spending compared to their benchmarks, achieving a net spending reduction of nearly $1 billion; and ACOs generally improved the quality of care they provided. The ACA also established a pilot project to test Medicare bundled payment models called Bundled Payments for Care Improvement (BPCI). Bundling links payments for the multiple services that Medicare beneficiaries receive during a specific episode of care across different settings (including hospitals, physician's offices, and post-acute care providers). Under the initiative, hospitals and other health care providers may enter into payment arrangements that include financial and performance accountability for episodes of care. For example, one model bundles payments for all inpatient hospital services, physician services, post-acute services, and hospital readmission care that a patient receives during and after a hip or knee replacement. As one Senator described it during Congress's consideration of the ACA, "in effect, instead of paying for each specific service, under bundling there is essentially one payment to reward trying to deliver care in an integrated fashion." Research has shown that bundled payments can align incentives for providers, allowing them to deliver higher-quality, more coordinated care across all specialties and settings. A 2018 report found that participants have responded to the initiative's incentives by reducing Medicare payments while maintaining quality of care. In October 2018, CMMI launched BPCI Advanced, an initiative to test bundling models for 32 additional episodes of care, with nearly 1,300 health systems signed up to participate. Other ACA "pay-for-performance" reforms tethered Medicare payments to the quality of care delivered. A value-based purchasing (VBP) system now pays hospitals for their performance based on quality criteria while treating Medicare beneficiaries, instead of on the quantity of procedures performed. Under the VBP program, CMS makes payments to hospitals based on how closely clinical best practices are followed and how well hospitals enhance patients' experience of care during hospital stays over a relevant time period. The Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program reduces Medicare payments to hospitals with "excessive" readmissions in order to incentivize patient safety and education. Research indicates that the law's incentives are working as intended, as readmissions for certain health conditions decreased more rapidly after passage, and improvement was most significant for hospitals with the worst pre-ACA performance. Finally, the ACA established the Hospital-Acquired Condition Reduction Program. The program addresses patient safety by reducing Medicare payments for hospitals that rank in the lowest-performing quartile of hospital-acquired conditions, based on recent statistics. Together, these reforms represent the most significant changes to the health care delivery and payment systems in more than 50 years. The ACA's reshaping of health care delivery went beyond changing service and payment models. The law made substantial investments in the health care workforce and in graduate medical education, refocused health systems on wellness and prevention, and launched a number of measures intended to study and improve health care quality. See, e.g., ACA 5201-10 (establishing flexible loan repayment programs and public health workforce loan repayment programs that have increased the size of the public health workforce); ACA 4401 (creating the National Prevention, Health Promotion and Public Health Council to coordinate and lead federal strategy with respect to wellness, prevention, and health promotion practices); ACA 3011 & 10302-05 (providing for a national quality improvement strategy to elevate priorities that have the greatest potential to improve patient outcomes, patient-centeredness and efficiency). Some of these health care delivery reform programs have already achieved improvements across a range of measures. Although we expect these programs will continue to be evaluated and improved, they have already spurred a significant amount of investment and innovation among hospitals. B. The Fifth Circuit's Decision Introduces Substantial Uncertainty for Hospitals and Health Systems. Hospitals and health systems' decade of investments to reimagine the way they deliver care has been called into doubt by the decisions below. By abdicating its responsibility to address the purely legal question of severability and instead remanding to the district court to re-conduct its own analysis "with a finer-toothed comb," the Fifth Circuit raised more questions than answers. As the decision stated: It may still be that none of the ACA is severable from the individual mandate, even after the district court's inquiry on remand is concluded. It may be that all of the ACA is severable from the individual mandate. It may also be that some of the ACA is severable from the individual mandate and some is not. Pet'r App. 68a-69a. Practically speaking, absent review in this Court, the district court and Fifth Circuit will spend at least two years determining whether none, some, or all of the reforms described above should remain. Such uncertainty has real-world consequences for hospitals and health systems, and, most importantly, the patients they serve. Predictability is critical in making investment and capital decisions. The ACA's Medicaid expansion (for the 37 states that have opted in) and delivery reforms (for all states) have made a substantial financial impact on hospitals and greatly enhanced access to care for patients. Taken together, these provisions have transformed the way care is delivered, resulted in fewer hospital closures, and provided greater economic confidence to lenders and boards of trustees who have taken on new projects. The expanded ACA insured population has also contributed to closing the uninsured gap, which has improved health systems' financial viability and allowed underserved populations to receive preventive and other services in more appropriate care settings. ACA uncertainty often comes up in hospital bond rating evaluations, and many health systems would face bond rating downgrades that adversely impact their access to capital and increase expenses associated with necessary facility upgrades and other projects aimed at enhancing access to care. Given their widespread adoption across the country, the risk of losing the CMMI payment models may slow the shift to value-based payments and risk reversion to a fee-for-service model, from which Congress intended to evolve. Hospitals and health systems have already invested hundreds of millions of dollars in labor, technology, and other capital to advance these new delivery models, with many such investments featuring multi-year service contracts. Hospitals and health systems considering whether to join or form an accountable care organization, for example, may now hesitate to do so given the current state of limbo and the risk that the underlying statutory authority to create ACO's and to grant waiver protections from the Stark and anti-kickback laws, which enable the care coordination activities essential to their success, could disappear. Although this brief has focused primarily on the importance of the delivery system and payment reforms, it bears noting that the widespread coverage loss resulting from an invalidation of the ACA would itself have a significant impact on states, hospitals, and consumers. To understand the magnitude of uncertainty facing the nation's health systems, it is informative to drill down on Montana, one of our least populous states. The Montana Hospital Association estimates that judicial invalidation of the entire ACA would put the state at risk of: losing more than $1 billion in federal funding; adding $356 million in uncompensated care costs to health care providers; and over 140,000 Montana residents losing health insurance coverage (which amounts to almost 15% of the state's population and would result in a 176% increase in the uninsured rate). Similarly, Maine estimates that $200 to $300 million is at risk for its health systems. Extrapolate those numbers nationwide, and it is no surprise that "judicial repeal of the ACA would have potentially devastating effects on the national healthcare system and the economy at large." Pet'r App. 106a (King, J., dissenting). CONCLUSION The petition for a writ of certiorari should be granted. 