The National Women's Law Center (NWLC) is a nonprofit legal advocacy organization dedicated to the advancement and protection of legal rights and opportunities of women and all who suffer from sex discrimination. The National Partnership for Women & Families (National Partnership) is a nonprofit, nonpartisan organization that uses public education and advocacy to promote equal rights and quality health care for all. The Black Women's Health Imperative (BWHI) is a non-profit advocacy organization dedicated to promoting optimum health for Black women across the life span. The American Medical Women's Association (AMWA) works to advance women in medicine, advocate for equity, and ensure excellence in health care. These organizations have advocated on a range of issues important to women's health, frequently filing amicus curiae briefs in the U.S. Supreme Court and the courts of appeals. See, e.g., King v. Burwell, 135 S. Ct. 2480 (2015); Texas v. United States, 809 F.3d 134 (5th Cir. 2015). NWLC, the National Partnership, BWHI, and AMWA, together with the 77 additional amici listed in the Appendix, are committed to ensuring that women and their families have access to affordable, comprehensive health insurance and health care. This brief uses the term "women" because one critical purpose of the ACA was to ensure that women's health care needs are met. But the ACA's protections against sex discrimination in health care and health insurance apply to all, including transgender and gender non-conforming individuals. Amici are concerned about the potential impact of the Court's decision here-including the possibility that it will eliminate health coverage for tens of millions of women. Amici write to outline the serious harm to the health and economic security of women, and particularly women of color, that will result if the Court affirms the decisions below dismantling the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (ACA). SUMMARY OF THE ARGUMENT Congress enacted the ACA in the wake of growing recognition that entrenched health insurance practices systematically discriminated against women and thus left many-particularly women of color-without access to necessary care and treatment. Before the ACA, insurers in the individual market excluded coverage, or required substantial out-of-pocket payments, for essential women's health services such as maternity care and mammograms, while charging women higher premiums based solely on their sex. Insurers also denied coverage to many women based on common medical conditions and procedures, such as pregnancy or prior caesarean delivery. And insurers imposed lifetime coverage limits that left women and their families who were battling devastating illnesses unable to obtain necessary coverage. Pre-ACA barriers to care led women-particularly women of color-to forgo doctor visits and prescription medicines, contributing to otherwise-preventable deaths from childbirth, cervical cancer, and other conditions. The pre-ACA system also kept women with employer-sponsored insurance locked in their jobs for fear of losing coverage. Congress enacted specific provisions of the ACA to tackle those problems. For example, through the guaranteed-issue and community-rating provisions, the ACA ended what has widely been referred to as "gender rating" (charging women more for premiums based on their sex) and ended denials and rate increases for pre-existing conditions. The ACA eliminated lifetime caps on coverage, established a baseline of essential health benefits for individual and small group insurance plans, and required most plans to cover preventive health services without cost-sharing-provisions that improve the health of women and their families. The ACA expanded access to Medicaid and provided tax credits for insurance premiums-also crucial for women. And most directly, the ACA was the first federal law to broadly prohibit sex discrimination in health care. Although latent health disparities persist, the ACA has significantly improved the health and economic independence of women, including women of color. Among other advances, more women and children are insured, women's use of preventive services has increased as fewer women report cost as a barrier to obtaining care, and maternal and infant mortality rates, which are at crisis levels for Black and Native women and children, have begun to decline in Medicaid-expansion states. Texas takes the extraordinary position that in reducing the tax associated with the ACA's individual-responsibility provision (26 U.S.C. 5000A, as amended) to zero in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (TCJA), Congress implicitly revoked the ACA in its entirety. But Congress was well aware of the advancements in health coverage and health outcomes attributable to the ACA and demonstrably did not intend to revoke them in the TCJA. To the contrary, Congress repeatedly reassured the public that the TCJA would not affect the rest of the ACA, and even subsequently amended the ACA and appropriated billions of dollars to ACA programs-actions that would be illogical if Congress intended to revoke the ACA's protections by its passage of the TCJA. Indeed, Congress had previously rejected multiple attempts to repeal the ACA in whole or part. For these reasons, should the Court reach the third question presented, it should sever 5000A and uphold the rest of the ACA. As for the other questions presented, Amici agree with California and the U.S. House of Representatives that the plaintiffs lack Article III standing to challenge 5000A because it causes them no injury, and that 5000A is constitutional. This brief focuses on the third question presented: whether 5000A is severable from the rest of the ACA. Under the Supreme Court's severability jurisprudence, courts may only use their remedial powers to nullify a statute where it is "evident" that Congress intended that nullification. Nat'l Fed'n of Indep. Bus. v. Sebelius, 567 U.S. 519, 586-87 (2012) (NFIB). Here, just the opposite is evident. ARGUMENT I. A Central Purpose of the ACA Was to Eliminate Discriminatory Insurance Practices that Undermined the Health and Economic Security of Women and Their Families. A. Before the ACA, Women Faced Discriminatory Insurance Practices. Significant disparities in insurance coverage and access to health care affected the health and financial security of women before the ACA. Similar disparities in insurance coverage also existed for communities of color, thereby magnifying the harm for women of color. Large percentages of women lacked insurance coverage or went without necessary medical treatment due to cost, and many women who accessed medical care were financially devastated by doing so. Those outcomes arose in significant part from discriminatory health insurance practices that the ACA was enacted to address. 1. Throughout their lifetimes, women have on average greater health care needs, but lower wages and higher rates of poverty, than men. And while women of every race are overrepresented in the low-wage workforce, this disproportionate representation is even more stark for women of color-especially Latina, Native, and Black women. Women are also substantially more likely than men to have sole responsibility for children, aging relatives, or relatives with chronic medical conditions, further increasing the burden of health care on women. This is especially true for women of color, who are more likely to live in intergenerational households and be primary breadwinners. But insurance practices before the ACA made accessing health care comparatively more difficult for women. At the time of the ACA's enactment, one-third of women who had a health plan or had tried to purchase an individual plan had either been turned down by an insurance company, charged higher premiums because of their health, or had a health problem excluded from coverage. As a result of this and other contributing factors, 20% of women in the United States ages 15-44 were uninsured before the ACA. Low-income women and women of color were hit hardest-just prior to implementation of the ACA's major coverage expansions, 40% of low-income women were uninsured, and 22% of Black women and 36% of Latinas lacked insurance coverage. Although Medicaid was an important source of health coverage for some of the poorest women, its strict eligibility requirements before the ACA left many low-income women-especially those without children-unable to obtain the coverage they needed. 2. For many women, lack of coverage translated into lack of care. Pre-ACA studies showed that women without health insurance were more likely to forgo essential preventive services such as mammograms, Pap tests, and blood-pressure checks. In 2010, nearly half of women ages 19-64 reported not getting needed care because of cost; data from 2004-2007 show 23% of women of color being unable to visit a doctor because of cost. Inadequate health insurance has been associated with a longer interval between the onset of cancer-related symptoms and diagnosis. Black women reported that they avoided non-emergency health care while uninsured-for some, this meant that gynecological cancers were not found until years later, when symptoms developed to more advanced stages. As a latent consequence of delayed diagnosis, as of 2017, deaths of Black women in the United States from cervical cancer-a disease that is both preventable and treatable in its early stages-was comparable to rates in sub-Saharan Africa. The same is true of breast cancers. Mammogram screenings have saved as many as 600,000 lives in the U.S. since 1989. But with a later average stage of diagnosis and a higher rate of aggressive cancers, Black women in the United States were about 40% more likely to die from breast cancer than white women between 1999 and 2013. Verta Wells provides a heart-wrenching account of the tragic consequences of this access gap. When Verta's youngest son was 17, she found a lump in her breast; because she was covered under Illinois' Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP), she promptly sought treatment and became a survivor. But years later, when her children were grown and she was no longer eligible for CHIP, she felt another lump. Without insurance and no financial ability to consult with an oncologist as a free community clinic advised her to do, Verta did not seek medical care until she was so ill she had to visit the emergency room. She was diagnosed with metastatic cancer and died within a few months-an entirely preventable outcome shared by all-too-many women of color before the ACA. 3. The systemic sex discrimination in the health insurance market before the ACA also substantially curtailed women's economic mobility and security. Discriminatory insurance policies prevented women from leaving their employers to seek other opportunities-a phenomenon known as "job lock." Because the individual insurance market charged women more for health plans, or denied coverage based on preexisting conditions, many women were disincentivized from seeking better job opportunities because the alternative was no health insurance coverage, or inadequate coverage that failed to meet basic health needs like pregnancy care. Women were also more vulnerable to catastrophic medical costs. Women across all racial and ethnic groups were more likely than men to live in poverty, with Black and Latina women at least twice as likely as white women to be living in poverty. Before the ACA, 37% of women, versus 29% of men, reported problems paying medical bills. More than one-third of women filing for bankruptcy identified medical debt or health problems as a reason for filing, and women were more than twice as likely as men to identify a medical reason for their bankruptcies. In addition, the pre-ACA market kept women dependent on spousal health insurance. Because women are more likely to be covered by a spouse's health insurance, they are at a greater risk of coverage loss if their spouse dies, becomes unemployed, or if they divorce. Thus, while the pre-ACA health insurance market was insufficient to ensure positive health outcomes for individuals in the United States generally, it had a particularly pernicious impact on women and communities of color. This began to change when Congress enacted the ACA. B. Key Provisions of the ACA Abolished Practices That Harmed Women and Their Families. When crafting health care legislation, Congress knew about the disparities in health insurance. Thus, many of the ACA's provisions addressed specific discriminatory practices. And because severability seeks to effectuate Congress's intent, this history provides critical context to the issues before the Court. 1. The ACA Ended Gender Rating. Is a woman worth as much as a man? One would think so, unless, of course, one was considering our current health care system, a system where women pay higher health care costs than men. -Representative Jackie Speier Before the ACA, "gender rating"-the practice of charging women more for insurance coverage based solely on their sex-was "rampant in the individual health insurance market and among best-selling health plans." In 2009, a nationwide survey of the best-selling plans in state capitals found that 95% practiced gender rating. Indeed, most of those individual plans charged non-smoking women more than men of the same age group who smoked. In Texas, for example, 100% of the best-selling plans practiced gender rating, and a 40-year-old woman who did not smoke was charged up to 40% more than a 40-year-old man who smoked. Gender rating also extended to group coverage. Before the ACA, insurance companies in most states charged higher premiums to businesses of all sizes based on the number of women they employed. This disproportionately impacted businesses with women-majority workforces, which include child care, home health care, pharmacies, florists, and community-service organizations. In these and other industries, gender rating left many small businesses struggling to find affordable coverage. The ACA ended gender rating in the individual and small group markets, which means that plans can no longer charge women-or their small employer- higher premiums. 2. The ACA Prohibited Denials, Exclusions, and Increased Premiums Based on Pre-existing Conditions Disproportionately Impacting Women and Girls. Today, women are turned away from buying insurance due to so-called preexisting conditions such as domestic violence, pregnancy, and C-sections. But this bill makes it illegal to deny coverage due to any preexisting condition, including breast cancer. -Rep. Judy Chu More than half of all women and girls in the United States have pre-existing conditions for which they could have been denied or excluded coverage, or charged a higher premium, before the ACA. The ACA ended this practice, which disproportionately impacted women and communities of color given higher prevalence of chronic health conditions among both groups. Denying coverage based on pre-existing conditions was commonplace before the ACA. For example, in 2009, the nation's four largest for-profit insurers denied coverage to "one out of every seven applicants based on a pre-existing condition" and "refused to pay over 70,900 medical claims due to pre-existing conditions." Pre-existing conditions were so broadly defined- and so disproportionately targeted at women-that the Speaker of the House remarked that "being a woman" was itself a "preexisting condition." These conditions included pregnancy, eating disorders, diabetes, lupus, heart disease, stroke, and obesity, among others-many of which disproportionately impact people of color due to multiple systemic barriers to care. Some insurers would deny coverage to women who had previously had a cesarean delivery-a particularly pernicious practice given that nearly three in ten births in the United States now occur by cesarean delivery, and the rate is even higher for Black women. Domestic violence was considered a pre-existing condition in nine states, where insurers could deny coverage to survivors. Insurers also denied coverage for those who sought treatment after a sexual assault, such as Christina Turner, who was required to go without health coverage for three years after she was drugged and sexually assaulted and had to receive precautionary anti-HIV medication. Today, under the ACA's guaranteed-issue and community-rating provisions, insurers can no longer "cherry pick healthy people and weed out those who are not healthy" through denials for pre-existing conditions. They must provide coverage to all who apply, and cannot charge higher premiums based on one's health status. The COVID-19 global health pandemic only underscores the importance of the ACA's preexisting condition protections for women and communities of color. For example, domestic violence, which disproportionally affects women of color, is spiking globally as women are forced to quarantine at home with their abusers. And given that communities of color are more likely to suffer from chronic conditions that raise the risk of developing severe COVID-19 symptoms, such as asthma, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes, loss of coverage due to pre-existing conditions in this time of crisis would be catastrophic. 3. The ACA Improved Coverage for Women's Health Needs. This bill is about women and children-the millions of women who have no health care and the millions of children who are born frail and weak because their mothers have no access to prenatal care and their fathers have no insurance . That should not happen in America. -Representative Marcy Kaptur Pre-ACA health insurance not only charged women more for health coverage based on their sex, but coverage was also less comprehensive for women's health needs. Indeed, in debating health care reform, Congress "recognized that historically, insurers have not covered medical services addressing a range of women's health needs, resulting in high out-of-pocket costs for medical services, such as maternity care and preventive screenings." Before the ACA it was nearly impossible, and extraordinarily expensive, to find maternity coverage outside of employer-provided insurance, yet maternity coverage is critical to ensuring access to pre- and postnatal health services and reducing the astronomical rate of maternal deaths in the U.S. that exists particularly among Black and Native women. A 2009 study found that only 13% of individual health insurance policies available for 30-year-old women living in capital cities nationwide included maternity coverage. In certain states, there were no plans offering maternity coverage; in others, the only option was a limited maternity rider that covered just $2,000 of a woman's maternity expenses, which came nowhere near the actual cost of maternity care in the United States (an average of $7,488 for an uncomplicated vaginal birth in 2006). The few private plans that offered maternity coverage before the ACA often made it cost-prohibitive, with deductibles as high as $10,000, coupled with high premiums. This "shocking" reality was at the forefront of Congress's mind in enacting the ACA. Thus, new health plans in the individual and small-group markets must now cover "maternity and newborn care" as "essential health benefits." And almost all new private plans are now required to cover a range of preventive services for women and children without cost-sharing. Those who are newly eligible for Medicaid because of the ACA must also receive coverage of preventive services without cost-sharing. For women, these services include breast and cervical cancer screenings; screening for gestational diabetes; screening and counseling for interpersonal and domestic violence; the full range of FDA-approved methods of contraception for women and related education and counseling; comprehensive breastfeeding support services and supplies; and genetic counseling and testing for women at high risk of carrying the BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations (which increase the risk of cancer)-all without cost-sharing. Additionally, when the ACA became law, mental health coverage became an essential benefit. This change is particularly important for women, who are twice as likely as men to be diagnosed with depression. Most health plans are also required to cover mental health counseling for pregnancy-related and post-partum depression without cost-sharing beginning in 2020. 4. The ACA Expanded Medicaid and Offset the Cost of Insurance Through Premium Tax Credits. One way Congress sought to address systemic disparities in health insurance coverage was by expanding eligibility to participate in the Medicaid program to anyone meeting the income threshold-including adults without children-and by raising that threshold for single adults to 138% of the federal poverty level. For low-income individuals not eligible for Medicaid, Congress provided tax credits to offset the cost of insurance premiums. As the Congressional Budget Office (CBO) explained, "the substantial premium subsidies available in the exchanges would encourage the enrollment of a broad range of people." The CBO estimated that 57% of people with nongroup coverage would be entitled to subsidies, covering, on average, nearly two-thirds of an individual's premium. 5. The ACA Prohibited Sex Discrimination in Heath Care and Health Insurance. It is shocking to think that in today's America, over half of this country could be discriminated against in one of their most basic life needs. Women must shoulder the worst of the health care crisis, including outrageous discriminatory practices in care and coverage. -Senator Kirsten Gillibrand The ACA included a direct and express prohibition against sex discrimination in health care and health insurance and became the first comprehensive federal legislation to offer such protection. Notably, this nondiscrimination provision, 1557, was effective immediately upon enactment, years before compliance with the individual-responsibility provision was required. Section 1557 prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, race, national origin, disability, or age in health programs or activities receiving federal financial assistance, as well as the health insurance marketplaces. It also provides a private right of action, as in other federal civil rights statutes. In enacting this provision, Congress sought to "remedy the shameful history of invidious discrimination and the stark disparities in outcomes in our health care system based on traditionally protected factors such as race and gender." II. Congress Recognized the Benefits of the ACA's Protections and Did Not Intend to Repeal Those Protections When Enacting the TCJA. The ACA has improved access to health care for women and their families, and there are already measurable improvements in health outcomes for these populations, just as Congress had hoped. Congress knew about these improvements and, in amending the ACA to reduce the tax for failing to obtain health coverage, did not intend to undo this progress and place the health and economic security of women and their families at risk. A. The ACA Improved Health Outcomes and Economic Security for Women and Their Families. Passage of the ACA has caused a measurable improvement in women's health and economic security in at least three ways. 1. More Women and Families Have Obtained Insurance. As a result of the Medicaid expansion and increased enrollment in private plans, the number of uninsured women ages 19 to 64 has decreased significantly, from 19% (18.1 million) in 2010 to 11% (10.8 million) in 2018. Low-income women have made particularly large gains: uninsured rates for low-income women with incomes below 200% of the federal poverty level fell from 34% in 2010 to 18% in 2016. The findings are similar for low-income women of all races and ethnicities. Indeed, coverage increased for all racial and ethnic groups during this period, with most racial and ethnic minorities seeing particularly significant drops in uninsured rates. Children have benefitted as well. Medicaid expansion for adults led to an increase in enrollment of children in health insurance. The uninsured rate for all U.S. children reached an all-time low of 4.7% in 2016. States that have not implemented Medicaid expansion have not experienced as many gains-children in non-expansion states are now nearly twice as likely to be uninsured as children in states that have expanded Medicaid. Between 2013 and 2016, racial disparities in rates of uninsured children also improved, with Latina and Latino children, who historically have much higher uninsured rates, experiencing the greatest improvement. However, efforts by the executive branch in recent years to restrict and chip away at the ACA have led to a reversal of some of these improvements, especially for women, young adults, and those living in households making less than $48,000 per year. The uninsured rate for women is among the fastest rising. And the uninsured rate for children increased in 2017 for the first time in ten years, with the greatest increase among poor children, and it rose yet again in 2018. The increases were particularly pronounced for Hispanic children. And while these increases have thus far been relatively modest, it is estimated that a full repeal would more than double children's uninsured rate. 2. Women's Increased Use of Health Care Services Has Improved Their Health Outcomes. Studies of the ACA's impact on health outcomes demonstrate a significant improvement in self-reported health, regular care for chronic conditions, blood-pressure control, and medication adherence, among other things. Fewer low-income women now report cost to be a barrier to care, postpone preventive services, decline to fill prescriptions, skip pills, go without mental health care, or delay care due to cost. More women are being screened for cancers-an early intervention that is part of the standard of care and saves lives. Among low-income adults, Medicaid expansion under the ACA has been associated with increased screening for cervical, breast, and colorectal cancer. Increases in screening have been accompanied by increases in cancer diagnoses-but crucially in earlier disease stages. Authors of one study analyzing the effects of the ACA concluded that increased coverage rates due to the ACA were likely the "driving factor behind the significant improvement in early-stage diagnosis of young women with gynecologic cancer." And under the ACA, improved access to mental health care is already paying dividends-young women in particular have reported a significant relative increase in their mental health. The ACA's required coverage of the full range of FDA-approved contraceptives without cost-sharing has helped women to obtain the contraception that is most appropriate for them, allowing them to better control when they have children and, in turn, their own economic futures. Nearly 61.4 million women now have coverage of contraception without out-of-pocket costs. As a result, the use of contraception-especially highly effective long-acting reversible contraceptives such as intrauterine devices and contraceptive implants-has increased. This requirement has also advanced women's economic security: women saved an estimated $1.4 billion in 2013 on oral contraception alone. Investments in prenatal maternal care are generating long-term benefits for mothers and children. Among the latent consequences of pre-ACA coverage disparities and cost barriers are the devastating rates of death from pregnancy and childbirth in the United States. The maternal mortality rate in the United States has been "the worst among high-income countries," particularly for Black and Native women. Compared to white women, Black women were over three times more likely to die of pregnancy-related causes between 2007 and 2016, and Native American and Alaskan Native women were more than twice as likely. But these statistics have not been uniform throughout the country: states expanding Medicaid under the ACA have experienced lower rates of death of pregnant women than those declining Medicaid expansion. Moreover, mean infant mortality declined in Medicaid expansion states, and for Black infants, this decline was more than twice as high in Medicaid expansion than it was in non-Medicaid-expansion states. 3. Improved Coverage Has Provided Greater Economic Security for Women and Their Families. By improving health coverage not tied to employment, the ACA has allowed women to seek positions that may offer higher wages or better opportunities, alleviating job lock. Since the ACA health insurance marketplaces became available in 2014, more unmarried women have pursued full-time self-employment, coinciding with their relatively higher uptake of private health insurance purchased on the marketplaces. As of 2018, women of color account for about half of all women-owned businesses. In addition, research has shown a significant relationship between Medicaid coverage and reduction of medical debt, reducing both the average size of debt and the probability of a new bankruptcy filing. Researchers have also found that "the effect of the Medicaid expansion closes about a quarter of the gap in financial satisfaction between low-income and median-income individuals." Other analyses find that Medicaid coverage "nearly eliminates" catastrophic medical expenditures for low-income families and significantly reduces medical debt and evictions, both incredibly destabilizing events. The ACA has therefore allowed women, who are much more likely to be the heads of single-parent families, to better chart their own economic futures. Health and economic crises, like the COVID-19 pandemic, underscore how vital the ACA's protections are for women and communities of color. In at least eight plaintiff states, Black individuals make up 32% of COVID-19 fatalities, even though they account for only 16% of the population. Yet these same states have rejected Medicaid expansion and seek to eradicate the ACA's protections against discrimination in health care. And the economic impact of COVID-19 has disproportionately hurt women, landing in particularly harsh ways on women of color. Despite being 50% of the overall workforce, women accounted for 59% of job losses in March 2020 alone-and in women-dominated fields like education and health services (jobs such as teachers and nurses), women accounted for 100% of the net job loss, while men gained 10,000 jobs in these sectors during the same time period. Approximately 64% of March's job losses came in the accommodation and food services sector, where one in four workers (25%) are women of color. And because pre-COVID unemployment numbers for Black women and Latinas were already higher than for white men, these COVID-related job losses only exacerbate the economic challenges already faced by these communities. Because about half of all U.S. workers have employer-sponsored health care, this statistic is especially sobering, since it means these women have now lost access to their employer-sponsored health care in the middle of a global viral outbreak, when they would need it most. With the ACA, these newly unemployed women have options for obtaining health insurance to protect themselves and their families, through expanded Medicaid coverage or through tax credits to offset the cost of plans on the ACA marketplaces. B. Congress Did Not Intend to Eliminate The ACA's Key Protections By Enacting the TCJA. Should this Court find the need to undertake a severability analysis, it should sever the individual-responsibility provision and uphold the rest of the ACA. Legislative intent is the "touchstone" of the severability inquiry. NFIB, 567 U.S. at 567. And every possible indicator here demonstrates that Congress did not intend to do away with the ACA's key protections when passing the TCJA. In the seven years between the ACA and the TCJA, there were many attempts to repeal the ACA in its entirety, or rescind major portions of it, all of which failed. And for good reason: in addition to being effective in improving health coverage and outcomes, the ACA's protections are widely popular. A survey conducted by the Kaiser Family Foundation in August 2017, two months before the enactment of the TCJA, found that 78% of Americans, including more than half of Republicans, wanted the Administration to do what it could to make the current health care law work. When Congress passed the TCJA, legislators emphasized that doing so would have no impact on the ACA's protections: In honesty, as we all know, what we have done is-we are zeroing out the penalty, the tax imposed on people who cannot afford or do not wish to purchase an ObamaCare plan. That is all we are doing here. Not a single person is disqualified. Not a single person loses the benefit. There is no reduction in reimbursements to any healthcare providers. "The TCJA doesn't cut a single dime out of Medicaid, it doesn't cut a single dime out of insurance subsidies for people on the exchanges, and it doesn't change a single regulation of Obamacare. All it says is that the IRS cannot fine you ." Moreover, Congress has continued to amend the ACA even after the TCJA. In these amendments, Congress has appropriated billions of dollars to ACA programs, including $400 million for the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting program. These continued appropriations are a clear sign of Congress's consistent understanding that passing the TCJA would have no adverse impact on the other provisions of the ACA, and thus on the health of women and their families. Congress's intention is plain: it enacted landmark legislation in part to end health insurance practices that discriminated against women and undermined the health and economic security of women and their families. The success of the ACA in advancing the goals of Congress is widely documented and was well known by Congress when it repeatedly reassured the public that the TCJA would not impact any part of the ACA except for the individual responsibility provision. This Court should not repeal the ACA by judicial fiat when Congress has repeatedly declined to do so legislatively. CONCLUSION There is no evidence that Congress, in lowering the tax associated with the individual-responsibility provision, intended to dismantle the ACA and thereby undermine the critical gains for women's health and economic security attributable to it. But that's just what the courts below have done, and what this Court should reverse.