Amici curiae comprise national organizations and businesses focused on the advancement of women in business and are committed to the well-being of women and families. Amicus U.S. Women's Chamber of Commerce ("USWCC") is a national organization with more than 500,000 members that seeks to increase economic growth opportunities for women. Amicus National Association for Female Executives ("NAFE") is a national organization with more than 60,000 members that works to empower women to achieve career and personal success and to recognize corporations and organizations that expand opportunities for women in business. The 21 individual amici businesses range from small companies with a few employees to national household brands with thousands of employees. They are businesses that represent multiple industries and are located around the country. Uniting all of these varied businesses is the commitment to supporting and promoting women in the workplace. Amici have a strong interest in this case as the regulations at issue operate to defeat the goals of these organizations and businesses and harm women in business. A complete listing of amici is set forth in the Appendix, attached hereto. The regulations in this case would allow nearly any private employer, university, or health insurer to invoke religion or morality as a basis for stopping contraceptive coverage under the Affordable Care Act ("ACA"). Amici are committed to gender equality, which includes supporting women's healthcare that allows women to make choices about how to plan and care for their families. Amici offer this brief to assist the Court in understanding the importance to the national economy and business community of providing contraceptive coverage to all women. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT "The ability of women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the Nation has been facilitated by their ability to control their reproductive lives." Planned Parenthood of Se. Pa. v. Casey, 505 U.S. 833, 856 (1992) (citation omitted). As employees, managers, executives, and customers, women are essential to building thriving businesses and sustaining a modern economy. Supporting women in business includes supporting access to contraception - a crucial health benefit that provides women greater control over their education, their careers, and their lives. By helping women avoid unintended pregnancy, contraception facilitates women's participation and advancement in the workforce, which in turn supports business and economic growth. While this brief uses "woman" and "women" to describe those in need of contraceptive and abortion services, we note that not all those who can become pregnant, such as trans men, nonbinary, and gender nonconforming individuals, identify as women. Employers should implement policies that are sensitive to the needs of anyone who can become pregnant. The ACA's contraceptive coverage benefit provides women with meaningful access to a full array of contraceptive services. Since the contraceptive benefit was instituted, women's health has improved, rates of unintended pregnancies have decreased, women are more consistently obtaining the most effective contraceptive methods and the forms most appropriate for their needs. The contraceptive benefit is important throughout women's reproductive lives; contraception is used by young women, by mothers, and by women at various life and career stages. As set forth below, contraception has a positive impact not only on women, but also on their children and families. Yet contraception, and in particular the most effective forms of contraception, can be expensive. The ACA's contraceptive benefit has allowed millions of women to save billions of dollars in out-of-pocket costs for contraception, while helping them to more effectively avoid unintended pregnancy. The rules at issue in this case (the "Rules") threaten these vital advancements and will harm American women, families, and the economy. The Rules represent a major step backward for the millions of women who rely upon contraceptive care while pursuing their educations and careers during their childbearing years and for businesses that value gender equality and diversity and the contributions of female employees, executives, and customers. By establishing obstructions to meaningful access to contraception, the Rules will negatively affect women's ability to balance their personal lives and their educational and professional advancement. Providing women with the resources to make informed decisions regarding how many children to have, and when, and the ability to make plans about their work and life responsibilities is essential to a thriving economy. Businesses and the national economy benefit when working women know they have meaningful access to preventive healthcare, including contraception. Unintended pregnancy can derail women's efforts to obtain education and advance professionally, and women unable to afford effective contraception may be limited in their career choices. Loss of meaningful access to contraception can increase levels of stress, distraction, absenteeism, and turnover, decrease overall productivity, and stall career opportunities - all of which are detrimental to businesses and the national economy. The ACA's contraceptive benefit gives women the confidence of knowing they will have coverage for contraception if they change jobs or insurance companies. The ACA's contraceptive benefit thus provides a crucial health benefit that promotes three important and connected goals: (1) it provides women control over their lives, (2) it contributes to gender equality and inclusion, and (3) it facilitates economic growth. The Rules undermine each of these goals. The Rules' inevitable reduction in the number of women obtaining contraceptive coverage without cost-sharing will limit the ability of the affected women to advance professionally. This will directly affect businesses nationwide by reducing the number of qualified women available to work at their companies, and will have a negative impact on the national economy. For these and the reasons set forth more fully below, amici urge this Court to affirm the Third Circuit's decision and uphold the nationwide injunction prohibiting the Rules from taking effect. ARGUMENT Women's pursuit of educational and professional goals is intrinsically tied to their ability to determine whether and when to have children. Since the Supreme Court recognized in Griswold v. Connecticut, 410 U.S. 113 (1965), and Eisenstadt v. Baird, 405 U.S. 438 (1972), that the constitutionally protected right to privacy encompasses the right to access contraception, the number of working women in the U.S. has grown considerably, and the U.S. economy has grown alongside. Today, women comprise more than half of U.S. jobholders, with 76 million women working in full- or parttime roles, and their labor accounted for $7.6 trillion-or 40% of annual U.S. gross domestic product in 2017. In 2019, women-owned businesses generated $1.9 trillion in sales and employed 9.4 million people. American women contribute to economic innovation, productivity, and growth. These outcomes would not be possible without women's ability to control their own reproductive health, including access to contraception. In fact, a study reviewing contraceptive methods in the U.S. from 1982- 2010 reports that 99 percent of sexually active women have used contraception at least once in their lifetimes. That access was meaningfully expanded through the ACA, which eliminated cost-sharing obligations for an array of crucial preventative medicine and health services, including contraceptive services. As of December 2019, 61.4 million women now have insurance that covers contraception without having to pay out of pocket. The Rules will reverse this progress by decreasing access to contraception and thus making it harder for women to balance life choices with educational and professional goals. I. The Contraceptive Benefit Provides a Crucial Health Benefit that Allows Women Control over Their Lives, Their Education, and Their Careers. Contraception allows women to make significant decisions in their personal, educational, and professional lives without fear of unintended pregnancy. Women's ability to effectuate these decisions has had a profound effect on their own economic well-being as well as that of their families. Indeed, "five decades after the birth control pill was introduced, it is clear that consistent access to effective and affordable contraception has served as a catalyst of opportunity" and revolutionized expectations about women's "educational and career prospects and their roles in the home and workplace."10 The "weight of the evidence across numerous studies shows significant employment and educational gains have followed directly from women's ability to better time their entry into parenthood." A. Contraception Enhances Women's Education And Workforce Participation And The WellBeing Of Women And Families. Meaningful access to contraception ensures that women can exercise autonomy and control over their reproductive health, including decisions about when and whether to have children. In a 2019 survey, 86 percent of women agreed that controlling if and when to have children has been important to their careers. In another survey, women reported that using birth control allows them to pursue personal goals, better control their lives and future, and "better care for themselves and their families, either directly or indirectly through facilitating their education and career." When women lack meaningful access to contraception, their ability to prevent unintended pregnancies and births decreases substantially. A recent study found that 85 percent of women who stopped using contraception became pregnant during the first year. In the United States, the 14 percent of women who do not use contraceptives account for 54 percent of all unintended pregnancies. By contrast, the 68 percent of women at risk for an unintended pregnancy who use contraceptives consistently and correctly account for only 5 percent of all unintended pregnancies. Access to contraception enhances women's ability to pursue education and increases their participation and advancement in the workforce by providing them with the ability to control their reproductive lives and thus direct their future. As several economic studies have confirmed, access to contraception has "altered women's expectations about childbearing during a period critical to career investment, and reduced the cost of increasing their early career investments." One study found that "women living in states with requirements on insurers to cover contraception are more likely to transition from unemployment or out of the labor force into employment" than women living in states without this requirement. The ability to avoid unintended pregnancy is vital for women at all stages of their career paths, beginning with the bedrock of education. As access to contraception has increased, women have been able to achieve significant educational milestones. Women who do not have children when they are teenagers on average obtain more education. A recent study found that "just one-third of all student parents earn a degree or certificate within six years of enrolling in college, compared with over half of non-parent students." One study concluded that access to oral contraceptives accounted for more than 400,000 of the college degrees completed by women born between 1939 and 1959. When women are affected by unintended pregnancy, their educational goals may not only be delayed, which can have lasting impacts on their overall career advancement, they may be derailed altogether. Likewise, the availability of contraception has had a statistically significant impact on the number of women obtaining the education necessary to enter professional occupations. "Access to the pill was linked to the increased numbers of college-educated women pursuing advanced professional degrees and making up increased proportions of such degree programs." Today, women earn 57 percent of bachelor's degrees, 60 percent of master's degrees and just over half of all doctoral degrees. In the 1960s, women made up less than 10 percent of students in JD, MBA, and MD programs, while women now account for just over half the students in those programs. Absent access to contraception, these numbers would be much lower. Women who have more control over their reproductive lives are better able to enhance their earning potential, allowing them to provide for themselves and their families. "Many women are the principal wage earners for their families, and they participate in the Social Security system on exactly the same basis as men." Weinberger v. Wiesenfeld, 420 U.S. 636, 654 (1975) (Powell, J., concurring). In 2017, the latest year with available data, 41 percent of mothers were the sole or primary breadwinners for their families, earning at least half of their total household income. This figure has more than doubled since 1967. This shift is due in part to women's increased control over the number and timing of children. A study has found that "the Pill-induced effects on wages amount to roughly one-third of the total wage gains for women in their forties born from the mid-1940s to early 1950s." That study concluded that approximately 10 percent of the narrowing of the wage gap between men and women during the 1980s and 31 percent during the 1990s can be attributed to women's ability to access oral contraceptives prior to age 21. Simply put, women who have meaningful access to contraception can better control their reproductive health and the timing of pregnancy, improving their ability to shape and reap the rewards of their family lives and careers. Beyond allowing women greater control over their education and careers, access to contraception has a positive impact on families, especially children. Access to contraception is associated with significant reductions in both child and adult poverty rates. By enhancing parents' ability to invest time, energy, and resources in their children, access to contraception also has been linked to improved outcomes for children's mental and behavioral development. Studies show that differences in a mother's access to birth control predict differences in the extent and intensity of her children's labor force participation, wage earnings, and household incomes. Contraception use also allows women and their families to avoid the many negative health consequences that are associated with having pregnancies without optimal time between them. Unintended pregnancies, which are directly linked to a lack of access to contraceptives, can erode other aspects of women's lives. Unintended pregnancies are linked to conflict and decreased satisfaction in relationships, decreased child well-being, and depression, anxiety, and overall lower levels of happiness. Unintended pregnancies are also linked to increased pregnancy-related morbidity and mortality, which contribute to the United States having one of the highest maternal mortality rates in the developed world, with approximately 700 women in the United States dying each year from pregnancy or childbirth-related causes. Indeed, the district court in this case found that "disruptions in contraceptive coverage will lead to women suffering unintended pregnancies and other medical consequences." Pennsylvania v. Trump, 351 F. Supp. 3d 791, 828 (E.D. Pa. 2019). B. The Contraceptive Benefit Enhances The Proven Benefits Of Access To Contraceptives. Access to contraceptives has yielded significant gains. But for many women actual, meaningful access requires the elimination of cost-sharing burdens. Studies have concluded that "even seemingly small out-of-pocket costs can reduce use of services and medication." And recent studies confirm that the ACA's contraceptive benefit, significantly increased women's ability to access essential contraceptive services. For example, the teen birth rate fell to its lowest ever in 2016, a sharp decline attributed in part to the contraceptive benefit. The effectiveness of the ACA's Women's Health Amendment in providing access to contraceptives is further evidenced by the substantial decrease in the number of women incurring out-of-pocket costs for contraception. Before the Women's Health Amendment took effect, only 15 percent of privately insured women had coverage for contraception without out-of-pocket costs. That number rose to 67 percent about a year after the Women's Health Amendment took effect. The ACA's contraception benefit saved women $1.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs in 2013 alone. A study of more than 600,000 women nationwide concluded that women were more likely to use oral contraceptives consistently once the contraceptive benefit removed cost-sharing obligations. In addition to increasing overall access to contraceptives, the Women's Health Amendment also eliminated cost as a reason for women to choose one method of contraception over another. As a result, more women have been able to choose more effective forms of contraception. For example, intrauterine devices ("IUDs") are one of the most effective forms of reversible birth control, with fewer than 1 percent of women who use them becoming pregnant within a year (compared to 34 percent of women who use condoms to prevent pregnancy and 7 percent of women who use oral contraceptives). IUDs, however, have high upfront costs, which can exceed $1,000. Prior to the contraceptive benefit, these one-time, up-front costs often deterred women from using this highly effective form of contraception. In January 2012 (before implementation of the Women's Health Amendment), 58 percent of women were paying out-of-pocket costs for an IUD, compared to 13 percent by March 2014. As a result of these decreased costs for women, there was a statistically significant increase in IUD insertions within the first year after the passage of the ACA. The Women's Health Amendment has ensured access to the most effective and appropriate contraceptives for more women than ever before. The Rules eliminate that access and thereby jeopardize the substantial opportunities the contraceptive benefit has provided to so many women. As a result, "more women will likely forgo contraceptive services or seek out less expensive and less effective types of contraceptive services in the absence of no-cost insurance coverage." Pennsylvania, 351 F. Supp. 3d at 828. II. The Contraceptive Benefit Facilitates Business Growth By Allowing Women to Play a Critical Role in The National Economy. Barriers to women's participation in the workforce - such as hampering access to contraception - "do more than hold back women's careers and aspirations for a better life," they also "act as brakes on the national economy, stifling the economy's ability to grow." Highlighting how important contraception has been for women's economic advancement, Bloomberg Businessweek recently listed contraception as the ninth "most disruptive innovation" in history, higher on the list than Amazon, McDonalds, email, and venture capital in terms of its impact on American businesses. A. When Women Are Empowered To Control Their Own Reproductive Lives, Businesses And The National Economy Benefit Too. For generations of women, access to contraception has allowed them to gain a stronger foothold in the workforce and national economy. Women now comprise more than 50 percent of the national workforce. The evidence shows that businesses and the economy benefit when women play a large role in the workforce. In fact, one study estimates that the United States economy is $2 trillion (or 13.5 percent) larger than it otherwise would be due to women's increased participation in the labor force since 1970. As of 2019, women also own approximately 13 million privately-held businesses. Those businesses generate about $1.9 trillion in revenue, and employ about 9.4 million people. Combined with firms that are equally owned by men and women, these businesses employ nearly 16.5 million people and generate $3.2 trillion in revenue. Businesses also benefit from women serving on their boards of directors and in management roles. For instance, companies in the top quartile for gender diversity on executive teams are 21 percent more likely to experience above-average profitability than companies in the bottom quartile. One study found that having just one female director on a board cuts the risk of bankruptcy by 20 percent. Having a higher percentage of female employees also benefits companies in other ways. One study found that employees who work in organizations with higher percentages of women have more job satisfaction, more organizational dedication, more meaningful work and less burnout. Even though businesses thrive with women's active participation and leadership, women are still underrepresented at every level of the corporate hierarchy. Adding barriers like the Rules that disproportionately affect women will only exacerbate the very real challenges women in business continue to face. If women are deprived of the tools they need to effectively support their reproductive decisions, many people, including women themselves, may decide it is too risky for women to undertake high-achieving career paths or start businesses. Businesses will lose if the Rules are allowed to undermine the ACA's contraceptive coverage benefit to women in the workplace. B. Decreased Access To Contraception Negatively Impacts Women's Well-Being, Businesses, And The Economy. The Rules undermine women's ability to consistently access contraception throughout their careers and inject uncertainty into the availability of meaningful access to contraception. As a result, women may opt out of certain professions or industries due to an increased risk of decreased access to contraception. Women may also forgo opportunities for professional growth and development, making career choices based on access to contraception instead of what is best for their lives. All businesses suffer when women are forced to make such choices. Research shows that lack of access to contraception contributes to negative health outcomes which can directly affect businesses that employ women. It is well documented that "mothers are healthier when they are able to control when they become pregnant through the use of family planning, and their infants benefit as well." For example, postpartum depression is nearly twice as high among women whose pregnancies were unplanned. Women whose pregnancies were unplanned are significantly more likely to be hospitalized during pregnancy. Further, unintended pregnancies may "present an unacceptably high health risk for women who have underlying medical conditions, some of which are exacerbated by pregnancy." Without access to contraceptives, women with underlying medical conditions such as diabetes, seizure disorders, and breast cancer face great risk due to unintended pregnancies, and lose the ability to plan ahead for how to manage their conditions during pregnancy. Unintended pregnancies are thus more likely to lead to health issues for women, which in turn interferes with education and work goals. In the same way that access to contraception affects women's health outcomes, women's ability to access contraception also affects the health of businesses and the economy. When employees' well-being is compromised, businesses suffer concrete economic losses related to, among other things: (1) reduced productivity and presenteeism; (2) absenteeism; and (3) high rates of employee turnover. Such factors can cost businesses up to $300 billion annually. Calculated another way, a single employee who faces health issues can cause a business to incur "an estimated cost of 16 days of incidental sick leave and loss of $8,000 per year." Mental illness and general anxiety are two of the top three conditions for highest daily productivity loss per person and highest annual cost per person. Further, one in three employees admit to being less productive at work because of financial stress, and two-thirds of employees say they are stressed about having money to cover out-of-pocket medical costs. In addition to health-related losses of productivity, stress associated with lack of control over reproductive health also damages businesses. Stress is a leading cause of employee turnover, which costs employers between 12 percent and 40 percent of their companies' net earnings each year. Businesses spend an average of $15,000 to replace each departing worker. Preventable turnover costs companies $475 billion per year. In 2018, 8.4 percent of departing employees cited well-being as the reason for their departure. Another 9.6 percent cited compensation and benefits as their reason for leaving, with the percentage citing benefits as their reason for leaving having increased by 100 percent since 2010. Businesses recognize that reducing employee stress and increasing overall well-being can result in financial gains. One study found that "more than two-thirds fo the 313 CFOs Chief Financial Officers surveyed agreed that health is a cultural or financial priority in their organizations." The CFOs viewed "health as having an impact on financial performance in both conventional (e.g., healthcare expenses and sick-day absences) and less conventional ways (e.g., opportunity costs and requirements for larger-than-optimal staffs)." In recognition of the important relationship between employees' well-being and businesses' financial interests, many companies have implemented various work-life initiatives. One example is the recent trend of providing on-site healthcare clinics to employees. By providing these services, workers experience between 15 and 22 fewer incidental missed workdays than the employees of companies that lack on-site healthcare providers. These initiatives enhance the bottom line. The Rules however, do the opposite. When women suffer negative health consequences associated with unintended pregnancies or stress occasioned by lack of control over their reproductive health, they see their net earnings decline, and the economy sees overall growth and productivity decline, too. Women have been able to contribute to the national economy in large part because access to contraception has empowered them to make life choices without fear of unintended pregnancy. Indeed, access to contraception implicates a woman's "basic control over her life." Casey, 505 U.S. at 928 (Blackmun, J., concurring in part and dissenting in part). Recognizing that women's ability to participate "equally in the economic and social life of the Nation" is "facilitated by their ability to control their reproductive lives," this Court should not reverse course on the substantial economic progress women have made. Casey, 505 U.S. at 856 (citations omitted). CONCLUSION The nation's economy is best served when women can participate fully in education, the workforce, and the marketplace without the uncertainty of unintended pregnancy. The Rules threaten businesses and the national economy by decreasing women's ability to access contraception. This loss of control limits women's ability to shape and care for their families, their education, and their careers. The Rules will have adverse consequences for women's economic security, equality, opportunity, and well-being. They will harm women, families, and the national economy. For these, and the foregoing reasons, amici respectfully urge this Court to affirm the Third Circuit's decision and uphold the nationwide injunction prohibiting the Rules from taking effect.