Founded in 1991 by Joseph Farah and James H. Smith, the Western Center for Journalism has been sponsoring investigative journalism for over eighteen years. Today, the Center is led by columnist and veteran broadcaster Floyd Brown. The Western Center for Journalism is a vigorous watchdog that keeps a check on government abuse and the media. The Center believes strongly in open public debate. It also believes that informed public debate requires quality journalism and reporting. The Center is working to provide quality journalism and reporting by exposing bias and falsehoods in the mainstream media, so that accurate information on important issues will be available to the public. The Western Center for Journalism website covers a wide variety of topics, from media bias, to media industry news, to articles about online news sources and the impact of "Citizen Journalists". In addition, the Center trains individuals to become "Citizen Journalists" and bloggers. These individuals are provided with technical training and practical advice on quality reporting and commentary. The issue of whether the Federal government may constitutionally mandate that its citizens purchase health insurance is of great concern to Amicus, because, if the Federal government can mandate the purchase of one particular good or service, then it could mandate that its citizens must purchase any number of goods and/or services, thus compelling its citizens to commit specific acts, and take specified actions, contrary to their freedoms, contrary to their best interests, and contrary to their Constitutional right to pursue life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness according to their own desires. In addition, the issue of whether such legislation may be signed into law by an occupant of the White House who may not be Constitutionally eligible to serve as President of the United States is of great concern to Amicus. The current occupant of the Oval Office was not be required to conclusively prove his birth status, and, if individuals who are not Constitutionally eligible to serve as President are, nonetheless, elected to that post, simply because of their popularity, and there are no clear guidelines regarding proof of birth status as it pertains to eligibility to run for and serve in various elected positions, then the people of the United States will be made subject to laws that were never properly signed into law by a sitting President of the United States. STATEMENT OF THE CASE Barack Obama, on March 23, 2010, signed the legislation entitled "The Patient Protection and Affordable Health Care Act" (hereinafter referred to as "OBAMACARE"). Soon after, the underlying case was brought against Kathleen Sebelius, Secretary of Health and Human Services, by the National Federation of Independent Business on March 23, 2010, seeking to nullify OBAMACARE as unconstitutional due to the individual mandate. Shortly after this case was fi led, the United States District Court hearing the matter granted summary judgment as follows: (1) to the federal government on the plaintiffs' claim that the Act's expansion of Medicaid is unconstitutional; and (2) to the plaintiffs on their claim that the Act's individual mandate-that individuals purchase and continuously maintain health insurance from private, government approved companies -is unconstitutional. The District Court concluded that the individual mandate exceeded congressional authority under Article I of the U. S. Constitution, because it was not enacted pursuant to Congress's tax power, and it exceeded Congress's power under the Interstate Commerce Clause and the Necessary and Proper Clause. The District Court also concluded that the individual mandate provision was not severable from the rest of the Act, and, therefore, declared the entire Act invalid. The 11th Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part the District Court's ruling, holding that the individual mandate exceeded Congress's enumerated tax and commerce power and is unconstitutional, but that the individual mandate can be severed from the remainder of the Act's myriad reforms. Amicus brings the following arguments in support of Petitioner, based, in part, on Drake, et al. v. Obama, et al., 9th Circuit Case No. C062321 (C.D. Cal. fi led January 20, 2009), a case currently pending before the U. S. Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals, which addresses issues concerning Barack Hussein Obama's eligibility to serve in the office of President of the United States. In addition, Amicus believes that the individual mandate required under OBAMACARE is not Constitutional under the Interstate Commerce Clause, and, because the individual mandate is essential to OBAMACARE as a whole, the entire act is unconstitutional. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT The individual mandate is essential to all other provisions of OBAMACARE. However, the individual mandate is not constitutional, not being within the purview of Congress' authority under the Interstate Commerce Clause. In addition, even if the individual mandate was proper, only a constitutionally eligible, sitting, President of the United States can sign legislation passed by both houses of Congress into law. If Barack Hussein Obama, Jr., is not eligible to serve as President of the United States, pursuant to Article II, Section 1, Clause 5, then, and in that event, OBAMACARE is of no force and effect, never having been lawfully enacted. ARGUMENT I. THE INDIVIDUAL MANDATE IS OUTSIDE THE POWER OF CONGRESS TO ENACT It would be a radical departure from existing case law to hold that Congress can regulate inactivity under the Interstate Commerce Clause. If Congress has the power to compel an otherwise passive individual into a commercial transaction with a third party merely by asserting, as was done in OBAMACARE, that compelling the actual transaction is itself "commercial and economic in nature, and substantially affects interstate commerce" see "The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act." Pub. L. No. 111-148, 124 Stat. 119 (2010), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, Pub. L. No. 111-152, 124 Stat. 1029 (2010) 1501(a)(1) (hereinafter referred to as "Act"), it is not hyperbole to suggest that Congress could do almost anything that it wanted to do, without any constrictions by the U. S. Constitution. It is difficult to imagine that a nation which began, at least in part, as the result of opposition to a British mandate giving the East India Company a monopoly, and imposing a nominal tax on all tea sold in America, would have set out to create a government with the power to force people to buy tea in the first place. If Congress can penalize a passive individual for failing to engage in commerce, the enumeration of powers in the Constitution would have been in vain, for it would be "difficult to perceive any limitation on federal power" (United States v. Lopez (1995) 514 U.S. 549, 564), and we would have a Constitution in name only. Surely this is not what the Founding Fathers could have intended. See id. at 592 (quoting Hamilton at the New York Convention that there would be just cause to reject the Constitution if it would allow the federal government to "penetrate the recesses of domestic life, and control, in all respects, the private conduct of individuals") (Thomas, J., concurring). In Lopez, the Supreme Court struck down the Gun Free School Zones Act of 1990, after stating that, if the statute were to be upheld, "we are hard pressed to posit any activity by an individual that Congress is without power to regulate." See id. at 564., (emphasis added). If some type of already-existing activity or undertaking were not considered to be a prerequisite to the exercise of Congressional power under the Commerce Clause, it would be virtually impossible to posit anything that Congress would be without power to regulate. The U.S. Supreme Court has uniformly and consistently declared that the Interstate Commerce Clause applies to "three broad categories of activity." Lopez, supra, 514 U.S. at 558 (emphasis added); accord United States v. Morrison (2000) 529 U.S. 598, 608. The Supreme Court has further described the third category as "the power to regulate those activities having a substantial relation to interstate commerce." Lopez, supra, 514 U.S. at 558-59 (emphasis added); accord Morrison, supra, 529 U.S. at 609; see also Gonzales v. Raich (2005) 545 U.S. 1, 17; Perez v. United States (1971) 402 U.S. 146, 150; Wickard v. Filburn (1942) 317 U.S. 111, 124; United States v. Darby (1941) 312 U.S. 100, 119- 20; NLRB v. Jones & Laughlin Steel Corp. (1937) 301 U.S. 1, 37. Existing case law thus extends only to those "activities" that have a substantial relationship to, or substantially affect, interstate commerce. Only the U.S. Supreme Court, not Congress, can redefi ne interstate commerce or expand the concept further. See Robert L. Stern, That Commerce Which Concerns More States than One (1934) 47 Harv. L. Rev. 1335, 1363 (stating that the Supreme Court had, at one point in time, only talked about "movement" of goods across state lines under the Commerce Clause, because it was necessary to decide those earlier cases, and there had "been no need for a broader defi nition" of commerce; going on to opine that "it would seem timely that the Supreme Court" expand the defi nition, as "the time has now arrived for the Supreme Court to cut loose from the 'old' approach and to select the 'new' one"). The Interstate Commerce Clause originally applied to the trade and exchange of goods, as it sought to eliminate trade barriers by and between the states. Over the years, the Clause's reach has been expanded from covering actual interstate commerce (and its channels and instrumentalities) to intrastate activities that substantially affect interstate commerce. It has even been applied to activities that involve the mere consumption of a product (even if there is no legal commercial interstate market for that product). To now hold that Congress may regulate the so-called "economic decision" to not purchase a product or service, in anticipation of future consumption, is a "bridge too far." It is without logical limitation and far exceeds the existing legal boundaries established by Supreme Court precedent. Finally, Congress has acknowledged, in the Act itself, that the individual mandate is absolutely "essential" to the Act's overarching goal of expanding the availability of affordable health insurance coverage, and protecting individuals with pre-existing medical conditions: If there were no individual mandate, many individuals would wait to purchase health insurance until they needed care the individual mandate is essential to creating effective health insurance markets in which improved health insurance products that are guaranteed issue and do not exclude coverage of pre-existing conditions can be sold. Act 1501(a)(2)(I) (emphasis added). In other words, the individual mandate is indisputably necessary to OBAMACARE's insurance market reforms, which are, in turn, indisputably necessary to the purpose of OBAMACARE. Since the individual mandate is unconstitutional under the Commerce Clause, and, because, in the words of Congress, the individual mandate is "essential" to OBAMACARE as a whole, OBAMACARE is wholly invalid, unconstitutional, and unenforceable. For this reason, Amicus respectfully request that this Court grant Petitioners' appeal, and overturn OBAMACARE in its entirety. II. FEDERAL LEGISLATION, TO BECOME LAW, MUST BE SIGNED BY A SITTING PRESIDENT The underlying action herein is a dispute over the Constitutionality of legislation purportedly signed into law by Barack Obama, acting as President of the United States. However, pursuant to Article I, Section 7, Clause 2, of the U. S. Constitution, legislation passed by both houses of Congress does not become law unless and until it is signed into law by a sitting U.S. President, or both houses of Congress override a sitting President's veto by a two-thirds vote. If there was no sitting U.S. President when OBAMACARE was purportedly signed into law, then the law was never properly enacted, and it is of no force and effect, being void ab initio. The United States Constitution specifies the legislative process by which a law is enacted: "Every Bill which shall have passed the House of Representatives and the Senate, shall, before it become a Law, be presented to the President of the United States; If he approve he shall sign it, but if not he shall return it, with his Objections to that House in which it shall have originated, who shall enter the Objections at large on their Journal, and proceed to reconsider it. If after such Reconsideration two thirds of that House shall agree to pass the Bill, it shall be sent, together with the Objections, to the other House, by which it shall likewise be reconsidered, and if approved by two thirds of that House, it shall become a Law. But in all such Cases the Votes of both Houses shall be determined by Yeas and Nays, and the Names of the Persons voting for and against the Bill shall be entered on the Journal of each House respectively. If any Bill shall not be returned by the President within ten Days (Sundays excepted) after it shall have been presented to him, the Same shall be a Law, in like Manner as if he had signed it, unless the Congress by their Adjournment prevent its Return, in which Case it shall not be a Law." U.S. Constitution, Article I, Section 7, Clause 2. Enactment of Federal legislation may not constitutionally be conducted by any other means. ("Under Article I, 7, cl 2 of Constitution, Congress may legislate only through passage of bill which is approved by both Houses and signed by President." Central Bank, N.A. v First Interstate Bank, N.A. (1994) 511 US 164.). Further, a piece of legislation immediately becomes law when the President signs it: "Where Congress meets in regular session at time appointed, President may sign bill when Congress is in recess for specified time, but within ten days, Sundays excepted, after it is presented to him; act of Congress having been presented to President while Congress was sitting, and having been signed by him when Congress was in recess for specified time, but within ten days, Sundays excepted, after it was so presented to him, was effectively approved, and immediately became law." La Abra Silver Mining Co. v United States (1899) 175 US 423.) Since a piece of legislation becomes law immediately upon the signature of the President, then there must be an eligible person sitting in the office of President of the United States to sign it. There are two requirements for a person to be eligible to hold the office of President of the United States: (1) having either received a majority of the Electoral College votes, or having succeeded a prior President following his, or her, death or constitutional disability; and (2) meeting the minimum eligibility for the office. The 12th Amendment specifies the election and succession of U.S. Presidents: "The person having the greatest Number of votes for President, shall be the President, if such number be a majority of the whole number of Electors appointed; and if no person have such majority, then from the persons having the highest numbers not exceeding three on the list of those voted for as President, the House of Representatives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the President. But in choosing the President, the votes shall be taken by states, the representation from each state having one vote; a quorum for this purpose shall consist of a member or members from two-thirds of the states, and a majority of all the states shall be necessary to a choice. And if the House of Representatives shall not choose a President whenever the right of choice shall devolve upon them, before the fourth day of March next following, then the Vice-President shall act as President, as in the case of the death or other constitutional disability of the President." U.S. Constitution, Amendment 12, Clause 3. In addition, the three requirements for minimum eligibility for the office of President of the United States are specified in Article II of the United States Constitution: "No person except a natural born Citizen, or a Citizen of the United States, at the time of the Adoption of this Constitution, shall be eligible to the Office of President; neither shall any Person be eligible to that Office who shall not have attained to the Age of thirty-five Years, and been fourteen Years a Resident within the United States." U.S. Constitution, Article II, Section 1, Clause 5. Here, there is no question as to whether Mr Obama received the requisite votes from the Electoral College. However, Mr Obama has not yet verified whether he meets all of the requirements for minimum eligibility, namely whether he is a natural born citizen. A provision of the U.S. Constitution may not be disregarded by means of a popular vote of the people, as there are specific guidelines for amending the Constitution of the United States. In order to do so, the U.S. Constitution, Article V, requires a two-thirds vote of both houses of Congress and ratification by three-fourths of all State legislatures in the United States (U.S. Constitution, Article V). Even if the people of the United States voted to elect as President a candidate who did not qualify for the position under the U.S. Constitution Article II, Section 1, Clause 5, that vote would not be sufficient to overcome the Constitutional requirements for office and make that candidate eligible for the office. Once a name is placed on a ballot, voters are only concerned with whether they prefer one candidate over another candidate, as it can be rightfully inferred by said voters that the threshold issue of eligibility has already been determined by virtue of the candidate names having been placed on the ballot. Additionally, candidates for the Office of President of the United States are not required to prove their eligibility for the office to the voters at all, and, instead, candidates are tasked with convincing the voters to vote for that particular candidate over the other candidates. Because voters can, and do, vote for candidates that are liked by the voters, even if those candidates may not be eligible for the position, the voters do not have the power, or the right, to determine the eligibility of a candidate. For the Court to hold otherwise would be to strip all candidates not winning a majority of the votes cast of all political power, as the laws would be based upon the whims of the majority of voters, rather than on the Rule of Law, and, in this case, the requirement of the U. S. Constitution for service in the Office of President of the United States. Furthermore, contrary to what Mr Obama's supporters have argued, the Electoral College is not empowered with the authority to determine the eligibility of any candidate for President. In twenty-six States and the District of Columbia, Presidential Electors are prohibited by statute from voting in variance with their pledges, or the votes of a majority of the voters in their State or District, or, if they do, they face civil and/ or criminal penalties and fines. The act of determining eligibility is one that requires discretionary authority, so that a candidate found to be ineligible for an office may be removed or precluded from placement on the ballot. However, any discretionary authority of the majority of the States' Presidential Electors has been removed by statute, and the Presidential Electors, instead, perform a ministerial function of casting their votes in accordance with the popular vote of the State that each Elector represents. Any assertion that the Electoral College has the authority to make any determination of a Presidential candidate's eligibility to serve in the office is unpersuasive, because, while the historical intent of the Electoral College was to allow for such determinations, the modern majority trend of the States is to limit the duties of the Presidential Electors to the ministerial role of casting a vote for the candidate chosen by the popular vote of their respective States or District. For these reasons, the power to determine and/or exclude a candidate's eligibility is not found within the Electoral College. Finally, political boards, committees, and panels, in general, such as the United States Congress, are not proper bodies for making determinations of eligibility in this situation, as the U.S. Senate attempted to do in the case of U.S. Senator John McCain's eligibility to serve as President of the United States in 2008 (see Senate Resolution 511 (2008)), because of the significant risk of "corrupt and partisan action" (Irby v. Barrett (AK, 1942) 163 S.W.2d 512, 514). Matters committed by the Constitution to the non-judicial branches of the Federal Government are political in nature. Baker v. Carr (1962) 369 U.S. 186, 211. Thus, the Office of President of the United States is designed to decide political issues. In like manner, the United States Congress is a political body with the power to legislate political matters. In addition to its political powers, Congress has internal rules concerning whether to seat or remove their own members, but these rules do not extend to eligibility of candidates for the Office of President of the United States. Since both the Congress and the President are political bodies, any Congressional authority to determine whether a candidate meets the requirements for the Office of President would be suspect, as the determinations would depend on which political party was in the majority at the time. A related issue was considered by Court in Irby v. Barrett, which held: "If the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee have the right to say that because of the decision of this court petitioners is ineligible to be a candidate for office, they may also say, in any case, that for some other reason a candidate is ineligible. For instance, it has been held by this court in many election contests that one must pay his poll tax; that he must do so after proper assessment in the time and manner required by law, and that otherwise he is not eligible even to vote, and unless he were a voter he could not hold office. So with other qualifications, such as residence. May this question be considered or decided by the Chairman and Secretary of the Committee? It may be that such power can be conferred upon them by laws of this State or the rules of the party; but it is certain that this has not yet been done. If this can be done, and should be done, the door would be opened wide for corrupt and partisan action. It might be certified that a prospective candidate has sufficiently complied with the laws of the State and the rules of a political party to become a candidate, and, upon further consideration, that holding might be recalled; and this might be done before that action could be reviewed in a court of competent jurisdiction and reversed in time for the candidate to have his name placed on the ticket. It would afford small satisfaction if, after the ticket had been printed with the name of the candidate omitted, to have a holding by the court that the name should not have been omitted." (Irby v. Barrett (AK, 1942) 163 S.W.2d 512, 514). Since the Office of President of the United States is the most powerful position in the country, the risk of "corrupt and partisan action" is great if the authority to determine eligibility is placed in the hands of those who are likely to gain an advantage over opposing political parties. Given this risk, the proper remedy for eligibility disputes is to bring such disputes to the Court for a determination, rather than to Congress or to the Electoral College, and this Court has the power to make determinations of fact and law regarding controversies over the eligibility of an officeholder, with little likelihood of partisan results. For all of these reasons, the issue of a candidate's eligibility is not a political question, this Court may properly make a determination on this issue, and this Court should decide this issue. The issue of the eligibility of Barack Hussein Obama, Jr., substantially impacts on the determination of whether the legislation commonly known as OBAMACARE was ever properly enacted, for, if he is not eligible to serve as President of the United States, OBAMACARE was never properly enacted, and, as a result, it never legally had any force or effect. CONCLUSION As discussed above, if one who is acting as President of the United States lacks the minimum requirements of eligibility for the position, then no legislation, such as OBAMACARE, signed by that ineligible purported President is valid or enforceable. In addition, the OBAMACARE "individual mandate" is not a Constitutional expression of Congressional power, and, since the "individual mandate" is essential to the workings of OBAMACARE, the whole Act is, therefore, invalid. For these reasons, Amicus respectfully requests that this Court grant Petitioners' appeal, and find OBAMACARE invalid in its entirety. 